Feeling depressed and alone, Michaelson found a desert knoll outside
the city overlooking the tall spires that shone in the sunlight and
gleamed in the moonlight. He made a stretcher, rolled the old man's
body on to it and dragged it down the long ancient street and up the
knoll.
  
 
  Here he buried him.
  
 
  But it seemed a waste of time. Somehow he knew beyond any doubt that
the old native and his body were completely disassociated in some sense
more complete than death.
  
 
  In the days that followed he gave much thought to the "clock." He came
to the city every day. He spent long hours in the huge square building
with the books. He learned the language by sheer bulldog determination.
Then he searched the books for information about the instrument.
  
 
  Finally after many weeks, long after the winds had obliterated all
evidence of Maota's grave on the knoll, Michaelson made a decision. He
had to know if the machine would work for him.
  
 
  And so one afternoon when the ancient spires threw long shadows
over the sand he walked down the long street and entered the old
man's house. He stood before the instrument, trembling, afraid, but
determined. He pinched his eyes shut tight like a child and pressed the
button.
  
 
  The high-pitched whine started.
  
 
  Complete, utter silence. Void. Darkness. Awareness and memory, yes;
nothing else. Then Maota's chuckle came. No sound, an impression only
like the voice from the ancient book. Where was he? There was no left
or right, up or down. Maota was everywhere, nowhere.
  
 
  "Look!" Maota's thought was directed at him in this place of no
direction. "Think of the city and you will see it."
  
 
  Michaelson did, and he saw the city beyond, as if he were looking
through a window. And yet he was in the city looking at his own body.
  
 
  Maota's chuckle again. "The city will remain as it is. You did not win
after all."
  
 
  "Neither did you."
  
 
  "But this existence has compensations," Maota said. "You can be
anywhere, see anywhere on this planet. Even on your Earth."
  
 
  Michaelson felt a great sadness, seeing his body lying across the
old, home made bed. He looked closer. He sensed a vibration or life
force—he didn't stop to define it—in his body. Why was his dead body
different from Old Maota's? Could it be that there was some thread
stretching from the reality of his body to his present state?
  
 
  "I don't like your thoughts," Maota said. "No one can go back. I tried.
I have discussed it with many who are not presently in communication
with you. No one can go back."
  
 
  Michaelson decided he try.
  
