He turned and walked off, not looking back.
  
 
  Michaelson stood in the ancient street, tall, gaunt, feet planted wide,
hands in pockets, watching the webfoot until he was out of sight beyond
a huge circular building. There was a man to watch. There was one of
the intelligent ones. One look into the alert old eyes had told him
that.
  
 
  Michaelson shook his head, and went about satisfying his curiosity.
He entered buildings without thought of roofs falling in, or decayed
floors dropping from under his weight. He began to collect small items,
making a pile of them in the street. An ancient bowl, metal untouched
by the ages. A statue of a man, one foot high, correct to the minutest
detail, showing how identical they had been to Earthmen. He found books
still standing on ancient shelves but was afraid to touch them without
tools.
  
 
  Darkness came swiftly and he was forced out into the street.
  
 
  He stood there alone feeling the age of the place. Even the smell
of age was in the air. Silver moonlight from the two moons filtered
through clear air down upon the ruins. The city lay now in darkness,
dead and still, waiting for morning so it could lie dead and still in
the sun.
  
 
  There was no hurry to be going home, although he was alone, although
this was Alpha Centaurus II with many unknowns, many dangers ...
although home was a very great distance away. There was no one back
there to worry about him.
  
 
  His wife had died many years ago back on Earth. No children. His
friends in the settlement would not look for him for another day at
least. Anyway, the tiny cylinder, buried in flesh behind his ear, a
thing of mystery and immense power, could take him home instantly,
without effort save a flicker of thought.
  
 
  "You did not leave, as I asked you."
  
 
  Michaelson whirled around at the sound of the native's voice. Then he
relaxed. He said, "You shouldn't sneak up on a man like that."
  
 
  "You must leave, or I will be forced to kill you. I do not want to kill
you, but if I must...." He made a clucking sound deep in the throat.
"The spirits are angry."
  
 
  "Nonsense. Superstition! But never mind. You have been here longer
than I. Tell me, what are those instruments in the rooms? It looks like
a clock but I'm certain it had some other function."
  
 
  "What rooms?"
  
 
  "Oh, come now. The small rooms back there. Look like they were
bedrooms."
  
 
  "I do not know." The webfoot drew closer. Michaelson decided he was
sixty or seventy years old, at least.
  
 
  "You've been here a long time. You are intelligent, and you must be
educated, the way you talk. That gadget looks like a time-piece of some
sort. What is it? What does it measure?"
  
 
  "I insist that you go." The webfoot held something in his hand.
  
 
  "No." Michaelson looked off down the street, trying to ignore the
native, trying to feel the life of the city as it might have been.
  
