The native stood in the street less than a hundred feet away, waving
his arms madly. "Mr. Earthgod," he cried. "It is sacred ground where
you are trespassing!"
  
 
  The archeologist smiled, watching the man hurry closer. He was short,
even for a native. Long gray hair hung to his shoulders, bobbing up
and down as he walked. He wore no shoes. The toes of his webbed feet
dragged in the sand, making a deep trail behind him. He was an old man.
  
 
  "You never told us about this old dead city," Michaelson said,
chidingly. "Shame on you. But never mind. I've found it now. Isn't it
beautiful?"
  
 
  "Yes, beautiful. You will leave now."
  
 
  "Leave?" Michaelson asked, acting surprised as if the man were a
child. "I just got here a few hours ago."
  
 
  "You must go."
  
 
  "Why? Who are you?"
  
 
  "I am keeper of the city."
  
 
  "You?" Michaelson laughed. Then, seeing how serious the native was,
said, "What makes you think a dead city needs a keeper?"
  
 
  "The spirits may return."
  
 
  Michaelson crawled out of the doorway and stood up. He brushed his
trousers. He pointed. "See that wall? Built of some metal, I'd say,
some alloy impervious to rust and wear."
  
 
  "The spirits are angry."
  
 
  "Notice the inscriptions? Wind has blown sand against them for eons,
and rain and sleet. But their story is there, once we decipher it."
  
 
  "Leave!"
  
 
  The native's lined, weathered old face was working around the mouth in
anger. Michaelson was almost sorry he had mocked him. He was deadly
serious.
  
 
  "Look," he said. "No spirits are ever coming back here. Don't you know
that? And even if they did, spirits care nothing for old cities half
covered with sand and dirt."
  
 
  He walked away from the old man, heading for another building. The
sun had already gone below the horizon, coloring the high clouds. He
glanced backward. The webfoot was following.
  
 
  "Mr. Earthgod!" the webfoot cried, so sharply that Michaelson stopped.
"You must not touch, not walk upon, not handle. Your step may destroy
the home of some ancient spirit. Your breath may cause one iota of
change and a spirit may lose his way in the darkness. Go quickly now,
or be killed."
  
