Maota laughed, then sobered quickly. "You lie."
  
 
  "No."
  
 
  "If I had this machine, could I travel as you?"
  
 
  "Yes."
  
 
  "Then I'll kill you and take yours."
  
 
  "It would not work for you."
  
 
  "Why?"
  
 
  "Each machine is tailored for each person."
  
 
  The old man hung his head. He looked down into the black, charred
hole. He walked all around the hole. He kicked at the sand, looking
half-heartedly again for the book.
  
 
  "Look," Michaelson said. "I'm sure I've convinced you that I'm human.
Why not have a try at negotiating our differences?"
  
 
  He looked up. His expressive eyes, deep, resigned, studied Michaelson's
face. Finally he shook his head sadly. "When we first met I hoped we
could think the ancient thoughts together. But our paths diverge. We
have finished, you and I."
  
 
  He turned and started off, shoulders slumped dejectedly.
  
 
  Michaelson caught up to him. "Are you leaving the city?"
  
 
  "No."
  
 
  "Where are you going?"
  
 
  "Away. Far away." Maota looked off toward the hills, eyes distant.
  
 
  "Don't be stupid, old man. How can you go far away and not leave the
city?"
  
 
  "There are many directions. You would not understand."
  
 
  "East. West. North. South. Up. Down."
  
 
  "No, no. There is another direction. Come, if you must see."
  
 
  Michaelson followed him far down the street. They came to a section of
the city he had not seen before. Buildings were smaller, spires dwarfed
against larger structures. Here a path was packed in the sand, leading
to a particular building.
  
 
  Michaelson said, "This is where you live?"
  
 
  "Yes."
  
 
  Maota went inside. Michaelson stood in the entrance and looked around.
The room was clean, furnished with hand made chairs and a bed. Who is
this old man, he thought, far from his people, living alone, choosing
a life of solitude among ancient ruins but not touching them? Above
the bed a "clock" was fastened to the wall, Michaelson remembered his
fright—thinking of the warmth where warmth should not be.
  
 
  Maota pointed to it.
  
 
  "You asked about this machine," he said. "Now I will tell you." He laid
his hand against it. "Here is power to follow another direction."
  
