Old Maota read, Michaelson listened. The cadence was different, the
syntax confusing. But the thoughts were there. It might have been
a professor back on Earth reading to his students. Keats, Shelley,
Browning. These people were human, with human thoughts and aspirations.
  
 
  The old man stopped reading. He squatted slowly, keeping Michaelson in
sight, and laid the book face up in the sand. Wind moved the pages.
  
 
  "See?" he said. "The spirits read. They must have been great readers,
these people. They drink the book, as if it were an elixir. See how
gentle! They lap at the pages like a new kitten tasting milk."
  
 
  Michaelson laughed. "You certainly have an imagination."
  
 
  "What difference does it make?" Maota cried, suddenly angry. "You want
to close up all these things in boxes for a posterity who may have no
slightest feeling or appreciation. I want to leave the city as it is,
for spirits whose existence I cannot prove."
  
 
  The old man's eyes were furious now, deadly. The gun came down directly
in line with the Earthman's chest. The gnarled finger moved.
  
 
  Michaelson, using the power of the cylinder behind his ear, jumped
behind the old webfoot. To Maota it seemed that he had flicked out of
existence like a match blown out. The next instant Michaelson spun
him around and hit him. It was an inexpert fist, belonging to an
archeologist, not a fighter. But Maota was an old man.
  
 
  He dropped in the sand, momentarily stunned. Michaelson bent over to
pick up the gun and the old man, feeling it slip from his fingers,
hung on and was pulled to his feet.
  
 
  They struggled for possession of the gun, silently, gasping, kicking
sand. Faces grew red. Lips drew back over Michaelson's white teeth,
over Maota's pink, toothless gums. The dead city's fragile spires threw
impersonal shadows down where they fought.
  
 
  Then quite suddenly a finger or hand—neither knew whose finger or
hand—touched the firing stud.
  
 
  There was a hollow, whooshing sound. Both stopped still, realizing the
total destruction they might have caused.
  
 
  "It only hit the ground," Michaelson said.
  
 
  A black, charred hole, two feet in diameter and—they could not see how
deep—stared at them.
  
 
  Maota let go and sprawled in the sand. "The book!" he cried. "The book
is gone!"
  
 
  "No! We probably covered it with sand while we fought."
  
