"You are sensitive," the native said in his ear. "It takes a sensitive
god to feel the spirits moving in the houses and walking in these old
streets."
  
 
  "Say it any way you want to. This is the most fascinating thing
I've ever seen. The Inca's treasure, the ruins of Pompeii, Egyptian
tombs—none can hold a candle to this."
  
 
  "Mr. Earthgod...."
  
 
  "Don't call me that. I'm not a god, and you know it."
  
 
  The old man shrugged. "It is not an item worthy of dispute. Those names
you mention, are they the names of gods?"
  
 
  He chuckled. "In a way, yes. What is your name?"
  
 
  "Maota."
  
 
  "You must help me, Maota. These things must be preserved. We'll build
a museum, right here in the street. No, over there on the hill just
outside the city. We'll collect all the old writings and perhaps we may
decipher them. Think of it, Maota! To read pages written so long ago
and think their thoughts. We'll put everything under glass. Build and
evacuate chambers to stop the decay. Catalogue, itemize...."
  
 
  Michaelson was warming up to his subject, but Maota shook his head like
a waving palm frond and stamped his feet.
  
 
  "You will leave now."
  
 
  "Can't you see? Look at the decay. These things are priceless. They
must be preserved. Future generations will thank us."
  
 
  "Do you mean," the old man asked, aghast, "that you want others to come
here? You know the city abhors the sound of alien voices. Those who
lived here may return one day! They must not find their city packaged
and preserved and laid out on shelves for the curious to breathe their
foul breaths upon. You will leave. Now!"
  
 
  "No." Michaelson was adamant. The rock of Gibraltar.
  
 
  Maota hit him, quickly, passionately, and dropped the weapon beside his
body. He turned swiftly, making a swirling mark in the sand with his
heel, and walked off toward the hills outside the city.
  
 
  The weapon he had used was an ancient book. Its paper-thin pages
rustled in the wind as if an unseen hand turned them, reading, while
Michaelson's blood trickled out from the head wound upon the ancient
street.
  
