He sank into the softness of his bed. As he turned over on his side,
his gaze fell upon an object on a bureau in a far corner of the room.
  
 
  He sat straight up, his chest heaving.
  
 
  The object was a tri-dimensional photo of a rock-faced man in a
merchant spaceman's uniform. He was a giant of a man with a neatly
trimmed
   
   red beard
   
  !
  
 
  Ben stared at the photo for a long time. At length, he slipped into
restless sleep. Images of faces and echoes of words spun through his
brain.
  
 
  The dead man returned to him. Bloodied lips cursed at him. Glassy eyes
accused him. Somewhere were two lost children crying in the night.
  
 
  And towering above him was a red-bearded man whose great hands reached
down and beckoned to him. Ben crawled through the night on hands and
knees, his legs numb and useless. The crying of the children was a
chilling wail in his ears.
  
 
  His head rose and turned to the red-bearded man. His pleading voice
screamed out to him in a thick, harsh cackle. Yet even as he screamed,
the giant disappeared, to be replaced by white-booted feet stomping
relentlessly toward him.
  
 
  He awoke still screaming....
  
 
  A night without darkness passed. Ben lay waiting for Maggie's return, a
question already formed in his mind.
  
 
  She came and at once he asked, "Who is the man with the red beard?"
  
 
  She smiled. "I was right then when I gave you that thumbnail biog. You
   
   were
   
  looking for him, weren't you?"
  
 
  "Who is he?"
  
 
  She sat on the chair beside him.
  
 
  "My husband," she said softly.
  
 
  He began to understand. "And your husband needs an astrogator? That's
why you saved me?"
  
 
  "We need all the good men we can get."
  
 
  "Where is he?"
  
 
  She cocked her head in mock suspicion. "Somewhere between Mercury and
Pluto. He's building a new base for us—and a home for me. When his
ship returns, I'll be going to him."
  
 
  "Why aren't you with him now?"
  
 
  "He said unexplored space is no place for a woman. So I've been
studying criminal reports and photos from the Interplanetary Bureau of
Investigation and trying to find recruits like yourself. You know how
we operate?"
  
 
  He told her the tales he'd heard.
  
