He thought,
   
   I don't want your Martian wench. I don't want your opium
or your Devil's Egg or your Venusian kali. But if you had a drug that'd
bring a dead man to life, I'd buy and pay with my soul.
   
 
 
  "It is deal,
   
   monsieur
   
  ? Five dollars or twenty
   
   keelis
   
  for visit
Martian friend. Maybe you like House of Dreams. For House of Dreams—"
  
 
  "I'm not buying."
  
 
  The dirty-faced kid shrugged. "Then I show you to good table,—
   
   tres
bien
   
  . I do not charge you,
   
   senor
   
  ."
  
 
  The boy grabbed his hand. Because Ben could think of no reason for
resisting, he followed. They plunged into shifting layers of smoke and
through the drone of alcohol-cracked voices.
  
 
 
 
  They passed the bar with its line of lean-featured, slit-eyed
Earthmen—merchant spacemen.
  
 
  They wormed down a narrow aisle flanked by booths carved from Venusian
marble that jutted up into the semi-darkness like fog-blanketed
tombstones.
  
 
  Several times, Ben glimpsed the bulky figures of CO
  2
  -breathing
Venusians, the first he'd ever seen.
  
 
  They were smoky gray, scaly, naked giants, toads in human shape.
They stood solitary and motionless, aloof, their green-lidded eyes
unblinking. They certainly didn't look like telepaths, as Ben had heard
they were, but the thought sent a fresh rivulet of fear down his spine.
  
 
  Once he spied a white-uniformed officer of Hoover City's Security
Police. The man was striding down an aisle, idly tapping his neuro-club
against the stone booths.
  
 
 
   Keep walking
   
  , Ben told himself.
   
   You look the same as anyone else
here. Keep walking. Look straight ahead.
   
 
 
  The officer passed. Ben breathed easier.
  
 
  "Here we are,
   
   monsieur
   
  ," piped the Martian boy. "A
   
   tres
   
  fine table.
Close in the shadows."
  
 
  Ben winced. How did this kid know he wanted to sit in the shadows?
Frowning, he sat down—he and the dead man.
  
 
  He listened to the lonely rhythms of the four-piece Martian orchestra.
  
 
  The Martians were fragile, doll-like creatures with heads too large for
their spindly bodies. Their long fingers played upon the strings of
their
   
   cirillas
   
  or crawled over the holes of their flutes like spider
legs. Their tune was sad. Even when they played an Earth tune, it still
seemed a song of old Mars, charged with echoes of lost voices and
forgotten grandeur.
  
 
  For an instant, Ben's mind rose above the haunting vision of the dead
man. He thought,
   
   What are they doing here, these Martians? Here, in
a smoke-filled room under a metalite dome on a dust-covered world?
Couldn't they have played their music on Mars? Or had they, like me,
felt the challenge of new worlds?
   
 
 
  He sobered. It didn't matter. He ordered a whiskey from a Chinese
waiter. He wet his lips but did not drink. His gaze wandered over the
faces of the Inn's other occupants.
  
 
 
   You've got to find him
   
  , he thought.
   
   You've got to find the man with
the red beard. It's the only way you can escape the dead man.
   
 
