At the age of five—perhaps in order to dull the memory of his parents'
death in a recent strato-jet crash—he'd spent hours watching the night
sky for streaking flame-tails of Moon rockets. At ten, he'd ground
his first telescope. At fourteen, he'd converted an abandoned shed on
the government boarding-school grounds to a retreat which housed his
collection of astronomy and rocketry books.
  
 
  At sixteen, he'd spent every weekend holiday hitchhiking from Boys
Town No. 5 in the Catskills to Long Island Spaceport. There, among
the grizzled veterans of the old Moon Patrol, he'd found friends who
understood his dream and who later recommended his appointment to the
U. S. Academy for the Conquest of Space.
  
 
  And a month ago, he'd signed aboard the
   
   Odyssey
   
  —the first ship, it
was rumored, equipped to venture as far as the asteroids and perhaps
beyond.
  
 
  Cobb was persistent: "Damn fools shoulda known enough to stay on Earth.
What the hell good is it, jumpin' from planet to planet?"
  
 
 
   The guy's drunk
   
  , Ben thought. He took his drink and moved three
stools down the bar.
  
 
  Cobb followed. "You don't like the truth, eh, kid? You don't like
people to call you a sucker."
  
 
  Ben rose and started to leave the bar, but Cobb grabbed his arm and
held him there.
  
 
  "Thas what you are—a sucker. You're young now. Wait ten years. You'll
be dyin' of radiation rot or a meteor'll get you. Wait and see, sucker!"
  
 
  Until this instant, Ben had suppressed his anger. Now, suddenly and
without warning, it welled up into savage fury.
  
 
  His fist struck the man on the chin. Cobb's eyes gaped in shocked
horror. He spun backward. His head cracked sickeningly on the edge of
the bar. The sound was like a punctuation mark signaling the end of
life.
  
 
  He sank to the floor, eyes glassy, blood tricking down his jaw.
  
 
  Ben knew that he was dead.
  
 
  Then, for a single absurd second, Ben was seized with terror—just as,
a moment before, he'd been overwhelmed with anger.
  
 
  He ran.
  
