The face was that of a girl probably somewhere between twenty-five
and thirty. Her features, devoid of makeup, had an unhealthy-looking
pallor, as if she hadn't used a sunlamp for many weeks. Yet, at the
same time, her firm slim body suggested a solidity and a strength. Her
straight brown hair was combed backward, tight upon her scalp, and
drawn together in a knot at the nape of her neck.
  
 
  "I—I am better," he murmured. His words were still slow and thick. "I
am going to live?"
  
 
  "You will live."
  
 
  He thought for a moment. "How long have I been here?"
  
 
  "Nine days."
  
 
  "You took care of me?" He noted the deep, dark circles beneath her
sleep-robbed eyes.
  
 
  She nodded.
  
 
  "You're the one who carried me when I was shot?"
  
 
  "Yes."
  
 
  "Why?"
  
 
  Suddenly he began to cough. Breath came hard. She held the oxygen mask
in readiness. He shook his head, not wanting it.
  
 
  "Why?" he asked again.
  
 
  "It would be a long story. Perhaps I'll tell you tomorrow."
  
 
  A new thought, cloaked in sudden fear, entered his murky consciousness.
"Tell me, will—will I be well again? Will I be able to walk?"
  
 
  He lay back then, panting, exhausted.
  
 
  "You have nothing to worry about," the girl said softly. Her cool hand
touched his hot forehead. "Rest. We'll talk later."
  
 
  His eyes closed and breath came easier. He slept.
  
 
  When he next awoke, his gaze turned first to the window. There was
light outside, but he had no way of knowing if this was morning, noon
or afternoon—or on what planet.
  
 
  He saw no white-domed buildings of Hoover City, no formal lines of
green-treed parks, no streams of buzzing gyro-cars. There was only a
translucent and infinite whiteness. It was as if the window were set on
the edge of the Universe overlooking a solemn, silent and matterless
void.
  
 
  The girl entered the room.
  
 
  "Hi," she said, smiling. The dark half-moons under her eyes were less
prominent. Her face was relaxed.
  
 
  She increased the pressure in his rubberex pillows and helped him rise
to a sitting position.
  
 
  "Where are we?" he asked.
  
 
  "Venus."
  
 
  "We're not in Hoover City?"
  
 
  "No."
  
 
  He looked at her, wondering. "You won't tell me?"
  
 
  "Not yet. Later, perhaps."
  
 
  "Then how did you get me here? How did we escape from the Inn?"
  
