For some twenty minutes, he raced through a dizzying, nightmare world
of dark rocketfront alleys and shouting voices and pursuing feet.
  
 
  At last, abruptly, he realized that he was alone and in silence. He saw
that he was still on the rocketfront, but in the Tycho-ward side of the
city.
  
 
  He huddled in a dark corner of a loading platform and lit a cigarette.
A thousand stars—a thousand motionless balls of silver fire—shone
above him through Luna City's transparent dome.
  
 
  He was sorry he'd hit Cobb, of course. He was not sorry he'd run.
Escaping at least gave him a power of choice, of decision.
  
 
 
   You can do two things
   
  , he thought.
  
 
 
   You can give yourself up, and that's what a good officer would do.
That would eliminate the escape charge. You'd get off with voluntary
manslaughter. Under interplanetary law, that would mean ten years in
prison and a dishonorable discharge. And then you'd be free.
   
 
 
 
   But you'd be through with rockets and space. They don't want new
men over thirty-four for officers on rockets or even for third-class
jet-men on beat-up freighters—they don't want convicted killers. You'd
get the rest of the thrill of conquering space through video and by
peeking through electric fences of spaceports.
   
 
 
 
   Or—
   
 
 
  There were old wives' tales of a group of renegade spacemen who
operated from the Solar System's frontiers. The spacemen weren't
outlaws. They were misfits, rejectees from the clearing houses on Earth.
  
 
  And whereas no legally recognized ship had ventured past Mars, the
souped-up renegade rigs had supposedly hit the asteroids. Their
headquarters was Venus. Their leader—a subject of popular and
fantastic conjecture in the men's audiozines—was rumored to be a
red-bearded giant.
  
 
 
   So
   
  , Ben reflected,
   
   you can take a beer-and-pretzels tale seriously.
You can hide for a couple of days, get rid of your uniform, change your
name. You can wait for a chance to get to Venus. To hell with your
duty. You can try to stay in space, even if you exile yourself from
Earth.
   
 
 
  After all, was it right for a single second, a single insignificant
second, to destroy a man's life and his dream?
  
