She shrugged. "We have friends who can be bribed. A hiding place in the
city, the use of a small desert-taxi, a pass to leave the city—these
can be had for a price."
  
 
  "You'll tell me your name?"
  
 
  "Maggie."
  
 
  "Why did you save me?"
  
 
  Her eyes twinkled mischievously. "Because you're a good astrogator."
  
 
  His own eyes widened. "How did you know that?"
  
 
  She sat on a plain chair beside his bed. "I know everything about you,
Lieutenant Curtis."
  
 
  "How did you learn my name? I destroyed all my papers—"
  
 
  "I know that you're twenty-four. Born July 10, 1971. Orphaned at four,
you attended Boys Town in the Catskills till you were 19. You graduated
from the Academy at White Sands last June with a major in Astrogation.
Your rating for the five-year period was 3.8—the second highest in a
class of fifty-seven. Your only low mark in the five years was a 3.2 in
History of Martian Civilization. Want me to go on?"
  
 
  Fascinated, Ben nodded.
  
 
  "You were accepted as junior astrogation officer aboard the
   
   Odyssey
   
  .
You did well on your flight from Roswell to Luna City. In a barroom
fight in Luna City, you struck and killed a man named Arthur Cobb, a
pre-fab salesman. You've been charged with second degree murder and
escape. A reward of 5,000 credits has been offered for your capture.
You came to Hoover City in the hope of finding a renegade group of
spacemen who operate beyond Mars. You were looking for them in the
Blast Inn."
  
 
  He gaped incredulously, struggling to rise from his pillows. "I—don't
get it."
  
 
  "There are ways of finding out what we want to know. As I told you, we
have many friends."
  
 
  He fell back into his pillows, breathing hard. She rose quickly.
  
 
  "I'm sorry," she said. "I shouldn't have told you yet. I felt so happy
because you're alive. Rest now. We'll talk again soon."
  
 
  "Maggie, you—you said I'd live. You didn't say I'd be able to walk
again."
  
 
  She lowered her gaze. "I hope you'll be able to."
  
 
  "But you don't think I will, do you?"
  
 
  "I don't know. We'll try walking tomorrow. Don't think about it now.
Rest."
  
 
  He tried to relax, but his mind was a vortex of conjecture.
  
 
  "Just one more question," he almost whispered.
  
 
  "Yes?"
  
 
  "The man I killed—did he have a wife?"
  
 
  She hesitated. He thought,
   
   Damn it, of all the questions, why did I
ask that?
   
 
 
  Finally she said, "He had a wife."
  
 
  "Children?"
  
 
  "Two. I don't know their ages."
  
 
  She left the room.
  
