He was lucky. He found a tramp freighter whose skipper was on his last
flight before retirement. Discipline was lax, investigation of new
personnel even more so.
  
 
  Ben Curtis made it to Venus.
  
 
  There was just one flaw in his decision. He hadn't realized that the
memory of the dead man's face would haunt him, torment him, follow him
as constantly as breath flowed into his lungs.
  
 
  But might not the rumble of atomic engines drown the murmuring dead
voice? Might not the vision of alien worlds and infinite spaceways
obscure the dead face?
  
 
  So now he sat searching for a perhaps nonexistent red-bearded giant,
and hoping and doubting and fearing, all at once.
  
 
  "You look for someone,
   
   senor
   
  ?"
  
 
  He jumped. "Oh. You still here?"
  
 
  "
   
   Oui.
   
  " The Martian kid grinned, his mouth full of purple teeth. "I
keep you company on your first night in Hoover City,
   
   n'est-ce-pas
   
  ?"
  
 
  "This isn't my first night here," Ben lied. "I've been around a while."
  
 
  "You are spacemen?"
  
 
  Ben threw a fifty-cent credit piece on the table. "Here. Take off, will
you?"
  
 
  Spiderlike fingers swept down upon the coin. "
   
   Ich danke, senor.
   
  You
know why city is called Hoover City?"
  
 
  Ben didn't answer.
  
 
  "They say it is because after women come, they want first thing a
thousand vacuum cleaners for dust. What is vacuum cleaner,
   
   monsieur
   
  ?"
  
 
  Ben raised his hand as if to strike the boy.
  
 
  "
   
   Ai-yee
   
  , I go. You keep listen to good Martian music."
  
 
  The toothpick of a body melted into the semi-darkness.
  
 
  Minutes passed. There were two more whiskeys. A ceaseless parade of
faces broke through the smoky veil that enclosed him—reddish balloon
faces, scaly reptilian faces, white-skinned, slit-eyed faces, and
occasionally a white, rouged, powdered face. But nowhere was there a
face with a red beard.
  
 
  A sense of hopelessness gripped Ben Curtis. Hoover City was but one of
a dozen cities of Venus. Each had twenty dives such as this.
  
 
  He needed help.
  
 
  But his picture must have been 'scoped to Venusian visiscreens. A
reward must have been offered for his capture. Whom could he trust? The
Martian kid, perhaps?
  
 
  Far down the darkened aisle nearest him, his eyes caught a flash of
white. He tensed.
  
 
  Like the uniform of a Security Policeman, he thought.
  
 
  His gaze shifted to another aisle and another hint of whiteness.
  
 
  And then he saw another and another and another.
  
 
  Each whiteness became brighter and closer, like shrinking spokes of a
wheel with Ben as their focal point.
  
 
 
   You idiot! The damned Martian kid! You should have known!
   
 
