Fownes put his fork down. "Dear Mrs. Deshazaway," he started to say.
  
 
  "And of course when they do find out and they ask you why, Mr. Fownes,
you'll tell them. No, no heroics, please! When they ask a man a
question he always answers and you will too. You'll tell them I wanted
to be courted and when they hear that they'll be around to ask
   
   me
   
  a
few questions. You see, we're both a bit queer."
  
 
  "I hadn't thought of that," Fownes said quietly.
  
 
  "Oh, it doesn't really matter. I'll join Andrew, Curt, Norman—"
  
 
  "That won't be necessary," Fownes said with unusual force. "With all
due respect to Andrew, Curt, Norman and Alphonse, I might as well state
here and now I have other plans for you, Mrs. Deshazaway."
  
 
  "But my dear Mr. Fownes," she said, leaning across the table. "We're
lost, you and I."
  
 
  "Not if we could leave the dome," Fownes said quietly.
  
 
  "That's impossible! How?"
  
 
  In no hurry, now that he had the widow's complete attention, Fownes
leaned across the table and whispered: "Fresh air, Mrs. Deshazaway?
Space? Miles and miles of space where the real-estate monopoly has
no control whatever? Where the
   
   wind
   
  blows across
   
   prairies
   
  ; or is
it the other way around? No matter. How would you like
   
   that
   
  , Mrs.
Deshazaway?"
  
 
  Breathing somewhat faster than usual, the widow rested her chin on her
two hands. "Pray continue," she said.
  
 
  "Endless vistas of moonlight and roses? April showers, Mrs. Deshazaway.
And June, which as you may know follows directly upon April and is
supposed to be the month of brides, of marrying. June also lies beyond
the dome."
  
 
  "I see."
  
 
  "
   
   And
   
  ," Mr. Fownes added, his voice a honeyed whisper, "they say
that somewhere out in the space and the roses and the moonlight,
the sleeping equinox yawns and rises because on a certain day it's
   
   vernal
   
  and that's when it roams the Open Country where geigers no
longer scintillate."
  
 
  "
   
   My.
   
  " Mrs. Deshazaway rose, paced slowly to the window and then came
back to the table, standing directly over Fownes. "If you can get us
outside the dome," she said, "out where a man stays
   
   warm
   
  long enough
for his wife to get to know him ... if you can do that, Mr. Fownes ...
you may call me Agnes."
  
