When Humphrey Fownes stepped out of the widow's house, there was a
look of such intense abstraction on his features that Lanfierre felt a
wistful desire to get out of the car and walk along with the man. It
would be such a
   
   deliciously
   
  insane experience. ("April has thirty
days," Fownes mumbled, passing them, "because thirty is the largest
number such that all smaller numbers not having a common divisor
with it are
   
   primes
   
  ." MacBride frowned and added it to the dossier.
Lanfierre sighed.)
  
 
  Pinning his hopes on the Movement, Fownes went straight to the
library several blocks away, a shattered depressing place given over
to government publications and censored old books with holes in
them. It was used so infrequently that the Movement was able to meet
there undisturbed. The librarian was a yellowed, dog-eared woman of
eighty. She spent her days reading ancient library cards and, like the
books around her, had been rendered by time's own censor into near
unintelligibility.
  
 
  "Here's one," she said to him as he entered. "
   
   Gulliver's Travels.
   
  Loaned to John Wesley Davidson on March 14, 1979 for
   
   five
   
  days. What
do you make of it?"
  
 
  In the litter of books and cards and dried out ink pads that surrounded
the librarian, Fownes noticed a torn dust jacket with a curious
illustration. "What's that?" he said.
  
 
  "A twister," she replied quickly. "Now listen to
   
   this
   
  . Seven years
later on March 21, 1986, Ella Marshall Davidson took out the same book.
What do you make of
   
   that
   
  ?"
  
 
  "I'd say," Humphrey Fownes said, "that he ... that he recommended it
to her, that one day they met in the street and he told her about
this book and then they ... they went to the library together and she
borrowed it and eventually, why eventually they got married."
  
 
  "Hah! They were brother and sister!" the librarian shouted in her
parched voice, her old buckram eyes laughing with cunning.
  
 
  Fownes smiled weakly and looked again at the dust jacket. The twister
was unquestionably a meteorological phenomenon. It spun ominously, like
a malevolent top, and coursed the countryside destructively, carrying
a Dorothy to an Oz. He couldn't help wondering if twisters did anything
to feminine pulses, if they could possibly be a part of a moonlit
night, with cocktails and roses. He absently stuffed the dust jacket
in his pocket and went on into the other rooms, the librarian mumbling
after him: "Edna Murdoch Featherstone, April 21, 1991," as though
reading inscriptions on a tombstone.
  
