Fownes held his face up to let the rain fall on it. "Moonlight!" he
shouted. "Roses! My
   
   soul
   
  for a cocktail for two!" He grasped the
doorway to keep from being blown out of the house.
  
 
  "Are you going to make it stop or aren't you!" MacBride yelled.
  
 
  "You'll have to tell me what you did first!"
  
 
  "I
   
   told
   
  him not to touch that wheel! Lanfierre. He's in the upstairs
bedroom!"
  
 
  When he heard this Fownes plunged into the house and fought his way
up the stairs. He found Lanfierre standing outside the bedroom with a
wheel in his hand.
  
 
 
 
  "What have I done?" Lanfierre asked in the monotone of shock.
  
 
  Fownes took the wheel. It was off a 1995 Studebaker.
  
 
  "I'm not sure what's going to come of this," he said to Lanfierre with
an astonishing amount of objectivity, "but the entire dome air supply
is now coming through my bedroom."
  
 
  The wind screamed.
  
 
  "Is there something I can turn?" Lanfierre asked.
  
 
  "Not any more there isn't."
  
 
  They started down the stairs carefully, but the wind caught them and
they quickly reached the bottom in a wet heap.
  
 
  Recruiting Lieutenant MacBride from behind his sofa, the men carefully
edged out of the house and forced the front door shut.
  
 
  The wind died. The fog dispersed. They stood dripping in the Optimum
Dome Conditions of the bright avenue.
  
 
  "I never figured on
   
   this
   
  ," Lanfierre said, shaking his head.
  
 
  With the front door closed the wind quickly built up inside the house.
They could see the furnishing whirl past the windows. The house did a
wild, elated jig.
  
 
  "What kind of a place
   
   is
   
  this?" MacBride said, his courage beginning
to return. He took out his notebook but it was a soggy mess. He tossed
it away.
  
 
  "Sure, he was
   
   different
   
  ," Lanfierre murmured. "I knew that much."
  
 
  When the roof blew off they weren't really surprised. With a certain
amount of equanimity they watched it lift off almost gracefully,
standing on end for a moment before toppling to the ground. It was
strangely slow motion, as was the black twirling cloud that now rose
out of the master bedroom, spewing shorts and socks and cases every
which way.
  
 
  "
   
   Now
   
  what?" MacBride said, thoroughly exasperated, as this strange
black cloud began to accelerate, whirling about like some malevolent
top....
  
