He rubbed his chin critically. It
   
   seemed
   
  all right. A dreamy sunset,
an enchanted moon, flowers, scent.
  
 
  They were all purely speculative of course. He had no idea how a rose
really smelled—or looked for that matter. Not to mention a moon. But
then, neither did the widow. He'd have to be confident, assertive.
   
   Insist
   
  on it. I tell you, my dear, this is a genuine realistic
romantic moon. Now, does it do anything to your pulse? Do you feel icy
fingers marching up and down your spine?
  
 
  His own spine didn't seem to be affected. But then he hadn't read that
book on ancient mores and courtship customs.
  
 
  How really odd the ancients were. Seduction seemed to be an incredibly
long and drawn-out process, accompanied by a considerable amount
of falsification. Communication seemed virtually impossible. "No"
meant any number of things, depending on the tone of voice and the
circumstances. It could mean yes, it could mean ask me again later on
this evening.
  
 
  He went up the stairs to the bedroom closet and tried the rain-maker,
thinking roguishly:
   
   Thou shalt not inundate.
   
  The risks he was taking!
A shower fell gently on the garden and a male chorus began to chant
   
   Singing in the Rain
   
  . Undiminished, the yellow moon and the red sun
continued to be brilliant, although the sun occasionally arced over and
demolished several of the neon roses.
  
 
  The last wheel in the bedroom closet was a rather elegant steering
wheel from an old 1995 Studebaker. This was on the bootleg pipe; he
gingerly turned it.
  
 
  Far below in the cellar there was a rumble and then the soft whistle of
winds came to him.
  
 
  He went downstairs to watch out the living room window. This was
important; the window had a really fixed attitude about air currents.
The neon roses bent and tinkled against each other as the wind rose and
the moon shook a trifle as it whispered
   
   Cuddle Up a Little Closer
   
  .
  
 
  He watched with folded arms, considering how he would start.
   
   My dear
Mrs. Deshazaway.
   
  Too formal. They'd be looking out at the romantic
garden; time to be a bit forward.
   
   My very dear Mrs. Deshazaway.
   
  No.
Contrived. How about a simple,
   
   Dear Mrs. Deshazaway
   
  . That might be
it.
   
   I was wondering, seeing as how it's so late, if you wouldn't
rather stay over instead of going home....
   
 
 
  Preoccupied, he hadn't noticed the winds building up, didn't hear the
shaking and rattling of the pipes. There were attic pipes connected
to wall pipes and wall pipes connected to cellar pipes, and they made
one gigantic skeleton that began to rattle its bones and dance as
high-pressure air from the dome blower rushed in, slowly opening the
Studebaker valve wider and wider....
  
 
  The neon roses thrashed about, extinguishing each other. The red sun
shot off a mass of sparks and then quickly sank out of sight. The moon
fell on the garden and rolled ponderously along, crooning
   
   When the
Blue of the Night Meets the Gold of the Day
   
  .
  
 
  The shaking house finally woke him up. He scrambled upstairs to the
Studebaker wheel and shut it off.
  
 
  At the window again, he sighed. Repairs were in order. And it wasn't
the first time the winds got out of line.
  
 
  Why didn't she marry him and save all this bother? He shut it all down
and went out the front door, wondering about the rhyme of the months,
about stately August and eccentric February and romantic April. April.
Its days were thirty and it followed September.
   
   And all the rest have
thirty-one.
   
  What a strange people, the ancients!
  
 
  He still didn't see the orange car parked down the street.
  
