On his way out the librarian shouted at him: "
   
   A Tale of a Tub
   
  ,
thirty-five years overdue!" She was calculating the fine as he closed
the door.
  
 
  Humphrey Fownes' preoccupation finally came to an end when he was one
block away from his house. It was then that he realized something
unusual must have occurred. An orange patrol car of the security police
was parked at his front door. And something else was happening too.
  
 
  His house was dancing.
  
 
  It was disconcerting, and at the same time enchanting, to watch one's
residence frisking about on its foundation. It was such a strange sight
that for the moment he didn't give a thought to what might be causing
it. But when he stepped gingerly onto the porch, which was doing its
own independent gavotte, he reached for the doorknob with an immense
curiosity.
  
 
  The door flung itself open and knocked him back off the porch.
  
 
  From a prone position on his miniscule front lawn, Fownes watched as
his favorite easy chair sailed out of the living room on a blast of
cold air and went pinwheeling down the avenue in the bright sunshine. A
wild wind and a thick fog poured out of the house. It brought chairs,
suits, small tables, lamps trailing their cords, ashtrays, sofa
cushions. The house was emptying itself fiercely, as if disgorging an
old, spoiled meal. From deep inside he could hear the rumble of his
ancient upright piano as it rolled ponderously from room to room.
  
 
  He stood up; a wet wind swept over him, whipping at his face, toying
with his hair. It was a whistling in his ears, and a tingle on his
cheeks. He got hit by a shoe.
  
 
  As he forced his way back to the doorway needles of rain played over
his face and he heard a voice cry out from somewhere in the living room.
  
 
  "Help!" Lieutenant MacBride called.
  
 
  Standing in the doorway with his wet hair plastered down on his
dripping scalp, the wind roaring about him, the piano rumbling in the
distance like thunder, Humphrey Fownes suddenly saw it all very clearly.
  
 
  "
   
   Winds
   
  ," he said in a whisper.
  
 
  "What's happening?" MacBride yelled, crouching behind the sofa.
  
 
  "
   
   March
   
  winds," he said.
  
 
  "What?!"
  
 
  "April showers!"
  
 
  The winds roared for a moment and then MacBride's lost voice emerged
from the blackness of the living room. "These are
   
   not
   
  Optimum Dome
Conditions!" the voice wailed. "The temperature is
   
   not
   
  59 degrees.
The humidity is
   
   not
   
  47%!"
  
