Lanfierre had undoubtedly been affected by his job.
  
 
  Sitting behind the wheel of the orange car, he watched Humphrey Fownes
approach with a distinct feeling of admiration, although it was an
odd, objective kind of admiration, clinical in nature. It was similar
to that of a pathologist observing for the first time a new and
particularly virulent strain of pneumococcus under his microscope.
  
 
  Lanfierre's job was to ferret out aberration. It couldn't be tolerated
within the confines of a dome. Conformity had become more than a social
force; it was a physical necessity. And, after years of working at it,
Lanfierre had become an admirer of eccentricity. He came to see that
genuine quirks were rare and, as time went on, due partly to his own
small efforts, rarer.
  
 
  Fownes was a masterpiece of queerness. He was utterly inexplicable.
Lanfierre was almost proud of Humphrey Fownes.
  
 
  "Sometimes his house
   
   shakes
   
  ," Lanfierre said.
  
 
  "House shakes," Lieutenant MacBride wrote in his notebook. Then he
stopped and frowned. He reread what he'd just written.
  
 
  "You heard right. The house
   
   shakes
   
  ," Lanfierre said, savoring it.
  
 
  MacBride looked at the Fownes house through the magnifying glass of
the windshield. "Like from ...
   
   side to side
   
  ?" he asked in a somewhat
patronizing tone of voice.
  
 
  "And up and down."
  
 
  MacBride returned the notebook to the breast pocket of his orange
uniform. "Go on," he said, amused. "It sounds interesting." He tossed
the dossier carelessly on the back seat.
  
 
  Lanfierre sat stiffly behind the wheel, affronted. The cynical MacBride
couldn't really appreciate fine aberrations. In some ways MacBride
was a barbarian. Lanfierre had held out on Fownes for months. He
had even contrived to engage him in conversation once, a pleasantly
absurd, irrational little chat that titillated him for weeks. It was
only with the greatest reluctance that he finally mentioned Fownes
to MacBride. After years of searching for differences Lanfierre had
seen how extraordinarily repetitious people were, echoes really, dimly
resounding echoes, each believing itself whole and separate. They spoke
in an incessant chatter of cliches, and their actions were unbelievably
trite.
  
 
  Then a fine robust freak came along and the others—the echoes—refused
to believe it. The lieutenant was probably on the point of suggesting a
vacation.
  
 
  "Why don't you take a vacation?" Lieutenant MacBride suggested.
  
 
  "It's like this, MacBride. Do you know what a wind is? A breeze? A
zephyr?"
  
 
  "I've heard some."
  
 
  "They say there are mountain-tops where winds blow all the time. Strong
winds, MacBride. Winds like you and I can't imagine. And if there was
a house sitting on such a mountain and if winds
   
   did
   
  blow, it would
shake exactly the way that one does. Sometimes I get the feeling the
whole place is going to slide off its foundation and go sailing down
the avenue."
  
