The Movement met in what had been the children's room, where unpaid
ladies of the afternoon had once upon a time read stories to other
people's offspring. The members sat around at the miniature tables
looking oddly like giants fled from their fairy tales, protesting.
  
 
  "Where did the old society fail?" the leader was demanding of them. He
stood in the center of the room, leaning on a heavy knobbed cane. He
glanced around at the group almost complacently, and waited as Humphrey
Fownes squeezed into an empty chair. "We live in a dome," the leader
said, "for lack of something. An invention! What is the one thing
that the great technological societies before ours could not invent,
notwithstanding their various giant brains, electronic and otherwise?"
  
 
  Fownes was the kind of man who never answered a rhetorical question. He
waited, uncomfortable in the tight chair, while the others struggled
with this problem in revolutionary dialectics.
  
 
  "
   
   A sound foreign policy
   
  ," the leader said, aware that no one else had
obtained the insight. "If a sound foreign policy can't be created the
only alternative is not to have any foreign policy at all. Thus the
movement into domes began—
   
   by common consent of the governments
   
  . This
is known as self-containment."
  
 
  Dialectically out in left field, Humphrey Fownes waited for a lull
in the ensuing discussion and then politely inquired how it might be
arranged for him to get out.
  
 
  "Out?" the leader said, frowning. "Out? Out where?"
  
 
  "Outside the dome."
  
 
  "Oh. All in good time, my friend. One day we shall all pick up and
leave."
  
 
  "And that day I'll await impatiently," Fownes replied with marvelous
tact, "because it will be lonely out there for the two of us. My future
wife and I have to leave
   
   now
   
  ."
  
 
  "Nonsense. Ridiculous! You have to be prepared for the Open Country.
You can't just up and leave, it would be suicide, Fownes. And
dialectically very poor."
  
 
  "Then you
   
   have
   
  discussed preparations, the practical necessities of
life in the Open Country. Food, clothing, a weapon perhaps? What else?
Have I left anything out?"
  
 
  The leader sighed. "The gentleman wants to know if he's left anything
out," he said to the group.
  
 
  Fownes looked around at them, at some dozen pained expressions.
  
 
  "Tell the man what he's forgotten," the leader said, walking to the far
window and turning his back quite pointedly on them.
  
 
  Everyone spoke at the same moment. "
   
   A sound foreign policy
   
  ," they all
said, it being almost too obvious for words.
  
