Lieutenant MacBride pursed his lips.
  
 
  "I'll tell you something else," Lanfierre went on. "The
   
   windows
   
  all
close at the same time. You'll be watching and all of a sudden every
single window in the place will drop to its sill." Lanfierre leaned
back in the seat, his eyes still on the house. "Sometimes I think
there's a whole crowd of people in there waiting for a signal—as if
they all had something important to say but had to close the windows
first so no one could hear. Why else close the windows in a domed city?
And then as soon as the place is buttoned up they all explode into
conversation—and that's why the house shakes."
  
 
  MacBride whistled.
  
 
  "No, I don't need a vacation."
  
 
  A falling piece of glass dissolved into a puff of gossamer against the
windshield. Lanfierre started and bumped his knee on the steering wheel.
  
 
  "No, you don't need a rest," MacBride said. "You're starting to see
flying houses, hear loud babbling voices. You've got winds in your
brain, Lanfierre, breezes of fatigue, zephyrs of irrationality—"
  
 
  At that moment, all at once, every last window in the house slammed
shut.
  
 
  The street was deserted and quiet, not a movement, not a sound.
MacBride and Lanfierre both leaned forward, as if waiting for the
ghostly babble of voices to commence.
  
 
  The house began to shake.
  
 
  It rocked from side to side, it pitched forward and back, it yawed and
dipped and twisted, straining at the mooring of its foundation. The
house could have been preparing to take off and sail down the....
  
 
  MacBride looked at Lanfierre and Lanfierre looked at MacBride and then
they both looked back at the dancing house.
  
 
  "And the
   
   water
   
  ," Lanfierre said. "The
   
   water
   
  he uses! He could be
the thirstiest and cleanest man in the city. He could have a whole
family of thirsty and clean kids, and he
   
   still
   
  wouldn't need all that
water."
  
 
  The lieutenant had picked up the dossier. He thumbed through the pages
now in amazement. "Where do you get a guy like this?" he asked. "Did
you see what he carries in his pockets?"
  
 
  "And compasses won't work on this street."
  
 
  The lieutenant lit a cigarette and sighed.
  
 
  He usually sighed when making the decision to raid a dwelling. It
expressed his weariness and distaste for people who went off and got
neurotic when they could be enjoying a happy, normal existence. There
was something implacable about his sighs.
  
 
  "He'll be coming out soon," Lanfierre said. "He eats supper next door
with a widow. Then he goes to the library. Always the same. Supper at
the widow's next door and then the library."
  
 
  MacBride's eyebrows went up a fraction of an inch. "The library?" he
said. "Is he in with that bunch?"
  
 
  Lanfierre nodded.
  
 
  "Should be very interesting," MacBride said slowly.
  
 
  "I can't wait to see what he's got in there," Lanfierre murmured,
watching the house with a consuming interest.
  
 
  They sat there smoking in silence and every now and then their eyes
widened as the house danced a new step.
  
