"Men are too perishable," Mrs. Deshazaway said over dinner. "For all
practical purposes I'm never going to marry again. All my husbands die."
  
 
  "Would you pass the beets, please?" Humphrey Fownes said.
  
 
  She handed him a platter of steaming red beets. "And don't look at me
that way," she said. "I'm
   
   not
   
  going to marry you and if you want
reasons I'll give you four of them. Andrew. Curt. Norman. And Alphonse."
  
 
  The widow was a passionate woman. She did everything
passionately—talking, cooking, dressing. Her beets were passionately
red. Her clothes rustled and her high heels clicked and her jewelry
tinkled. She was possessed by an uncontrollable dynamism. Fownes had
never known anyone like her. "You forgot to put salt on the potatoes,"
she said passionately, then went on as calmly as it was possible for
her to be, to explain why she couldn't marry him. "Do you have any
idea what people are saying? They're all saying I'm a cannibal! I rob
my husbands of their life force and when they're empty I carry their
bodies outside on my way to the justice of the peace."
  
 
  "As long as there are people," he said philosophically, "there'll be
talk."
  
 
  "But it's the air! Why don't they talk about that? The air is stale,
I'm positive. It's not nourishing. The air is stale and Andrew, Curt,
Norman and Alphonse couldn't stand it. Poor Alphonse. He was never so
healthy as on the day he was born. From then on things got steadily
worse for him."
  
 
  "I don't seem to mind the air."
  
 
  She threw up her hands. "You'd be the worst of the lot!" She left the
table, rustling and tinkling about the room. "I can just hear them. Try
some of the asparagus.
   
   Five.
   
  That's what they'd say. That woman did
it again. And the plain fact is I don't want you on my record."
  
 
  "Really," Fownes protested. "I feel splendid. Never better."
  
 
  He could hear her moving about and then felt her hands on his
shoulders. "And what about those
   
   very
   
  elaborate plans you've been
making to seduce me?"
  
 
  Fownes froze with three asparagus hanging from his fork.
  
 
  "Don't you think
   
   they'll
   
  find out?
   
   I
   
  found out and you can bet
   
   they
   
  will. It's my fault, I guess. I talk too much. And I don't
always tell the truth. To be completely honest with you, Mr. Fownes, it
wasn't the old customs at all standing between us, it was air. I can't
have another man die on me, it's bad for my self-esteem. And now you've
gone and done something good and criminal, something peculiar."
  
