In the meantime, however, more things than pots came from Earth.
One was a printing press, the like of which none on Zur had ever
dreamed. This, for some unknown reason and much to the disgust of
the Lorians, was set up in Thorabia. Books and magazines poured from
it in a fantastic stream. The populace fervidly brushed up on its
scanty reading ability and bought everything available, overcome by
the novelty of it. Even Zotul bought a book—a primer in the Lorian
language—and learned how to read and write. The remainder of the
brothers Masur, on the other hand, preferred to remain in ignorance.
  
 
  Moreover, the Earthmen brought miles of copper wire—more than enough
in value to buy out the governorship of any country on Zur—and set up
telegraph lines from country to country and continent to continent.
Within five years of the first landing of the Earthmen, every major
city on the globe had a printing press, a daily newspaper, and enjoyed
the instantaneous transmission of news via telegraph. And the business
of the House of Masur continued to look up.
  
 
  "As I have always said from the beginning," chortled Director Koltan,
"this coming of the Earthmen had been a great thing for us, and
especially for the House of Masur."
  
 
  "You didn't think so at first," Zotul pointed out, and was immediately
sorry, for Koltan turned and gave him a hiding, single-handed, for his
unthinkable impertinence.
  
 
  It would do no good, Zotul realized, to bring up the fact that their
production of ceramic cooking pots had dropped off to about two per
cent of its former volume. Of course, profits on the line of new stoves
greatly overbalanced the loss, so that actually they were ahead; but
their business was now dependent upon the supply of the metal pots from
Earth.
  
 
  About this time, plastic utensils—dishes, cups, knives, forks—made
their appearance on Zur. It became very stylish to eat with the
newfangled paraphernalia ... and very cheap, too, because for
everything they sold, the Earthmen always took the old ware in trade.
What they did with the stuff had been hard to believe at first. They
destroyed it, which proved how valueless it really was.
  
 
  The result of the new flood was that in the following year, the sale of
Masur ceramic table service dropped to less than a tenth.
  
