All the chill recriminations and arguments Zotul had stored for this
occasion were dissipated in the warmth of the Earthman's manner.
  
 
  Almost apologetically, Zotul told of the encroachment that had been
made upon the business of the Pottery of Masur.
  
 
  "Once," he said formally, "the Masur fortune was the greatest in
the world of Zur. That was before my father, the famous Kalrab
Masur—Divinity protect him—departed this life to collect his greater
reward. He often told us, my father did, that the clay is the flesh and
bones of our culture and our fortune. Now it has been shown how prone
is the flesh to corruption and how feeble the bones. We are ruined, and
all because of new things coming from Earth."
  
 
  Broderick stroked his shaven chin and looked sad. "Why didn't you come
to me sooner? This would never have happened. But now that it has,
we're going to do right by you. That is the policy of Earth—always to
do right by the customer."
  
 
  "Divinity witness," Zorin said, "that we ask only compensation for
damages."
  
 
  Broderick shook his head. "It is not possible to replace an immense
fortune at this late date. As I said, you should have reported your
trouble sooner. However, we can give you an opportunity to rebuild. Do
you own an automobile?"
  
 
  "No."
  
 
  "A gas range? A gas-fired furnace? A radio?"
  
 
  Zotul had to answer no to all except the radio. "My wife Lania likes
the music," he explained. "I cannot afford the other things."
  
 
  Broderick clucked sympathetically. One who could not afford the
bargain-priced merchandise of Earth must be poor indeed.
  
 
  "To begin with," he said, "I am going to make you a gift of all these
luxuries you do not have." As Zotul made to protest, he cut him off
with a wave of his hand. "It is the least we can do for you. Pick a car
from the lot outside. I will arrange to have the other things delivered
and installed in your home."
  
 
  "To receive gifts," said Zotul, "incurs an obligation."
  
 
  "None at all," beamed the Earthman cheerily. "Every item is given to
you absolutely free—a gift from the people of Earth. All we ask is
that you pay the freight charges on the items. Our purpose is not to
make profit, but to spread technology and prosperity throughout the
Galaxy. We have already done well on numerous worlds, but working out
the full program takes time."
  
 
  He chuckled deeply. "We of Earth have a saying about one of our
extremely slow-moving native animals. We say, 'Slow is the tortoise,
but sure.' And so with us. Our goal is a long-range one, with the
motto, 'Better times with better merchandise.'"
  
