By and by, the Earthmen came to Lor, flying through the air in strange
metal contraptions. They paraded through the tile-paved streets of the
city, marveled here, as they had in Thorabia, at the buildings all of
tile inside and out, and made a great show of themselves for all the
people to see. Speeches were made through interpreters, who had much
too quickly learned the tongue of the aliens; hence these left much to
be desired in the way of clarity, though their sincerity was evident.
  
 
  The Earthmen were going to do great things for the whole world of
Zur. It required but the cooperation—an excellent word, that—of all
Zurians, and many blessings would rain down from the skies. This, in
effect, was what the Earthmen had to say. Zotul felt greatly cheered,
for it refuted the attitude of his brothers without earning him a
whaling for it.
  
 
  There was also some talk going around about agreements made between
the Earthmen and officials of the Lorian government, but you heard one
thing one day and another the next. Accurate reporting, much less a
newspaper, was unknown on Zur.
  
 
  Finally, the Earthmen took off in their great, shining ship. Obviously,
none had succeeded in chiseling them out of it, if, indeed, any had
tried. The anti-Earthmen Faction—in any culture complex, there is
always an "anti" faction to protest any movement of endeavor—crowed
happily that the Earthmen were gone for good, and a good thing, too.
  
 
  Such jubilation proved premature, however. One day, a fleet of ships
arrived and after they had landed all over the planet, Zur was
practically acrawl with Earthmen.
  
 
  Immediately, the Earthmen established what they called
"corporations"—Zurian trading companies under terrestrial control. The
object of the visit was trade.
  
 
  In spite of the fact that a terrestrial ship had landed at every Zurian
city of major and minor importance, and all in a single day, it took
some time for the news to spread.
  
 
  The first awareness Zotul had was that, upon coming home from the
pottery one evening, he found his wife Lania proudly brandishing an
aluminum pot at him.
  
 
  "What is that thing?" he asked curiously.
  
 
  "A pot. I bought it at the market."
  
 
  "Did you now? Well, take it back. Am I made of money that you spend my
substance for some fool's product of precious metal? Take it back, I
say!"
  
