The engaging manner of the man won Zotul's confidence. After all, it
was no more than fair to pay transportation.
  
 
  He said, "How much does the freight cost?"
  
 
  Broderick told him.
  
 
  "It may seem high," said the Earthman, "but remember that Earth is
sixty-odd light-years away. After all, we are absorbing the cost of the
merchandise. All you pay is the freight, which is cheap, considering
the cost of operating an interstellar spaceship."
  
 
  "Impossible," said Zotul drably. "Not I and all my brothers together
have so much money any more."
  
 
  "You don't know us of Earth very well yet, but you will. I offer you
credit!"
  
 
  "What is that?" asked Zotul skeptically.
  
 
  "It is how the poor are enabled to enjoy all the luxuries of the
rich," said Broderick, and went on to give a thumbnail sketch of the
involutions and devolutions of credit, leaving out some angles that
might have had a discouraging effect.
  
 
  On a world where credit was a totally new concept, it was enchanting.
Zotul grasped at the glittering promise with avidity. "What must I do
to get credit?"
  
 
  "Just sign this paper," said Broderick, "and you become part of our
Easy Payment Plan."
  
 
  Zotul drew back. "I have five brothers. If I took all these things for
myself and nothing for them, they would beat me black and blue."
  
 
  "Here." Broderick handed him a sheaf of chattel mortgages. "Have each
of your brothers sign one of these, then bring them back to me. That is
all there is to it."
  
 
  It sounded wonderful. But how would the brothers take it? Zotul
wrestled with his misgivings and the misgivings won.
  
 
  "I will talk it over with them," he said. "Give me the total so I will
have the figures."
  
 
  The total was more than it ought to be by simple addition. Zotul
pointed this out politely.
  
 
  "Interest," Broderick explained. "A mere fifteen per cent. After all,
you get the merchandise free. The transportation company has to be
paid, so another company loans you the money to pay for the freight.
This small extra sum pays the lending company for its trouble."
  
 
  "I see." Zotul puzzled over it sadly. "It is too much," he said. "Our
plant doesn't make enough money for us to meet the payments."
  
 
  "I have a surprise for you," smiled Broderick. "Here is a contract. You
will start making ceramic parts for automobile spark plugs and certain
parts for radios and gas ranges. It is our policy to encourage local
manufacture to help bring prices down."
  
 
  "We haven't the equipment."
  
 
  "We will equip your plant," beamed Broderick. "It will require only
a quarter interest in your plant itself, assigned to our terrestrial
company."
  
