Zotul, anxious to possess the treasures promised by the Earthman,
won over his brothers. They signed with marks and gave up a quarter
interest in the Pottery of Masur. They rolled in the luxuries of Earth.
These, who had never known debt before, were in it up to their ears.
  
 
  The retooled plant forged ahead and profits began to look up, but the
Earthmen took a fourth of them as their share in the industry.
  
 
  For a year, the brothers drove their shiny new cars about on the
new concrete highways the Earthmen had built. From pumps owned by a
terrestrial company, they bought gas and oil that had been drawn from
the crust of Zur and was sold to the Zurians at a magnificent profit.
The food they ate was cooked in Earthly pots on Earth-type gas ranges,
served up on metal plates that had been stamped out on Earth. In the
winter, they toasted their shins before handsome gas grates, though
they had gas-fired central heating.
  
 
  About this time, the ships from Earth brought steam-powered electric
generators. Lines went up, power was generated, and a flood of
electrical gadgets and appliances hit the market. For some reason,
batteries for the radios were no longer available and everybody had to
buy the new radios. And who could do without a radio in this modern age?
  
 
  The homes of the brothers Masur blossomed on the Easy Payment Plan.
They had refrigerators, washers, driers, toasters, grills, electric
fans, air-conditioning equipment and everything else Earth could
possibly sell them.
  
 
  "We will be forty years paying it all off," exulted Zotul, "but
meantime we have the things and aren't they worth it?"
  
 
  But at the end of three years, the Earthmen dropped their option.
The Pottery of Masur had no more contracts. Business languished. The
Earthmen, explained Broderick, had built a plant of their own because
it was so much more efficient—and to lower prices, which was Earth's
unswerving policy, greater and greater efficiency was demanded.
Broderick was very sympathetic, but there was nothing he could do.
  
 
  The introduction of television provided a further calamity. The sets
were delicate and needed frequent repairs, hence were costly to own and
maintain. But all Zurians who had to keep up with the latest from Earth
had them. Now it was possible not only to hear about things of Earth,
but to see them as they were broadcast from the video tapes.
  
 
  The printing plants that turned out mortgage contracts did a lush
business.
  
