Trembling with excitement at this news from their book-keeper, Koltan
called an emergency meeting. He even routed old Kalrab out of his
senile stupor for the occasion, on the off chance that the old man
might still have a little wit left that could be helpful.
  
 
  "Note," Koltan announced in a shaky voice, "that the Earthmen undermine
our business," and he read off the figures.
  
 
  "Perhaps," said Zotul, "it is a good thing also, as you said before,
and will result in something even better for us."
  
 
  Koltan frowned, and Zotul, in fear of another beating, instantly
subsided.
  
 
  "They are replacing our high-quality ceramic ware with inferior
terrestrial junk," Koltan went on bitterly. "It is only the glamor that
sells it, of course, but before the people get the shine out of their
eyes, we can be ruined."
  
 
  The brothers discussed the situation for an hour, and all the while
Father Kalrab sat and pulled his scanty whiskers. Seeing that they got
nowhere with their wrangle, he cleared his throat and spoke up.
  
 
  "My sons, you forget it is not the Earthmen themselves at the bottom
of your trouble, but the
   
   things
   
  of Earth. Think of the telegraph and
the newspaper, how these spread news of every shipment from Earth.
The merchandise of the Earthmen is put up for sale by means of these
newspapers, which also are the property of the Earthmen. The people are
intrigued by these advertisements, as they are called, and flock to
buy. Now, if you would pull a tooth from the kwi that bites you, you
might also have advertisements of your own."
  
 
  Alas for that suggestion, no newspaper would accept advertising
from the House of Masur; all available space was occupied by the
advertisements of the Earthmen.
  
 
  In their dozenth conference since that first and fateful one, the
brothers Masur decided upon drastic steps. In the meantime, several
things had happened. For one, old Kalrab had passed on to his immortal
rest, but this made no real difference. For another, the Earthmen had
procured legal authority to prospect the planet for metals, of which
they found a good deal, but they told no one on Zur of this. What
they did mention was the crude oil and natural gas they discovered
in the underlayers of the planet's crust. Crews of Zurians, working
under supervision of the Earthmen, laid pipelines from the gas and oil
regions to every major and minor city on Zur.
  
