For the common people of Zur, times were good everywhere. In a decade
and a half, the Earthmen had wrought magnificent changes on this
backward world. As Broderick had said, the progress of the tortoise was
slow, but it was extremely sure.
  
 
  The brothers Masur got along in spite of dropped options. They had less
money and felt the pinch of their debts more keenly, but television
kept their wives and children amused and furnished an anodyne for the
pangs of impoverishment.
  
 
  The pottery income dropped to an impossible low, no matter how Zotul
designed and the brothers produced. Their figurines and religious ikons
were a drug on the market. The Earthmen made them of plastic and sold
them for less.
  
 
  The brothers, unable to meet the Payments that were not so Easy any
more, looked up Zotul and cuffed him around reproachfully.
  
 
  "You got us into this," they said, emphasizing their bitterness with
fists. "Go see Broderick. Tell him we are undone and must have some
contracts to continue operating."
  
 
  Nursing bruises, Zotul unhappily went to the Council House again. Mr.
Broderick was no longer with them, a suave assistant informed him.
Would he like to see Mr. Siwicki instead? Zotul would.
  
 
  Siwicki was tall, thin, dark and somber-looking. There was even a hint
of toughness about the set of his jaw and the hardness of his glance.
  
 
  "So you can't pay," he said, tapping his teeth with a pencil. He
looked at Zotul coldly. "It is well you have come to us instead of
making it necessary for us to approach you through the courts."
  
 
  "I don't know what you mean," said Zotul.
  
 
  "If we have to sue, we take back the merchandise and everything
attached to them. That means you would lose your houses, for they are
attached to the furnaces. However, it is not as bad as that—yet. We
will only require you to assign the remaining three-quarters of your
pottery to us."
  
 
  The brothers, when they heard of this, were too stunned to think of
beating Zotul, by which he assumed he had progressed a little and was
somewhat comforted.
  
 
  "To fail," said Koltan soberly, "is not a Masur attribute. Go to the
governor and tell him what we think of this business. The House of
Masur has long supported the government with heavy taxes. Now it is
time for the government to do something for us."
  
