The pretty young wife laughed at him. "Up to your ears in clay, no
wonder you hear nothing of news! The pot is very cheap. The Earthmen
are selling them everywhere. They're much better than our old clay
pots; they're light and easy to handle and they don't break when
dropped."
  
 
  "What good is it?" asked Zotul, interested. "How will it hold heat,
being so light?"
  
 
  "The Earthmen don't cook as we do," she explained patiently. "There is
a paper with each pot that explains how it is used. And you will have
to design a new ceramic stove for me to use the pots on."
  
 
  "Don't be idiotic! Do you suppose Koltan would agree to produce a new
type of stove when the old has sold well for centuries? Besides, why do
you need a whole new stove for one little pot?"
  
 
  "A dozen pots. They come in sets and are cheaper that way. And Koltan
will have to produce the new stove because all the housewives are
buying these pots and there will be a big demand for it. The Earthman
said so."
  
 
  "He did, did he? These pots are only a fad. You will soon enough go
back to cooking with your old ones."
  
 
  "The Earthman took them in trade—one reason why the new ones are so
cheap. There isn't a pot in the house but these metal ones, and you
will have to design and produce a new stove if you expect me to use
them."
  
 
  After he had beaten his wife thoroughly for her foolishness, Zotul
stamped off in a rage and designed a new ceramic stove, one that would
accommodate the terrestrial pots very well.
  
 
  And Koltan put the model into production.
  
 
  "Orders already are pouring in like mad," he said the next day. "It
was wise of you to foresee it and have the design ready. Already, I am
sorry for thinking as I did about the Earthmen. They really intend to
do well by us."
  
 
  The kilns of the Pottery of Masur fired day and night to keep up with
the demand for the new porcelain stoves. In three years, more than a
million had been made and sold by the Masurs alone, not counting the
hundreds of thousands of copies turned out by competitors in every
land.
  
