By the time ten years had passed since the landing of the first
terrestrial ship, the Earthmen were conducting a brisk business in
gas-fired ranges, furnaces and heaters ... and the Masur stove business
was gone. Moreover, the Earthmen sold the Zurians their own natural gas
at a nice profit and everybody was happy with the situation except the
brothers Masur.
  
 
  The drastic steps of the brothers applied, therefore, to making an
energetic protest to the governor of Lor.
  
 
  At one edge of the city, an area had been turned over to the Earthmen
for a spaceport, and the great terrestrial spaceships came to it and
departed from it at regular intervals. As the heirs of the House of
Masur walked by on their way to see the governor, Zotul observed that
much new building was taking place and wondered what it was.
  
 
  "Some new devilment of the Earthmen, you can be sure," said Koltan
blackly.
  
 
  In fact, the Earthmen were building an assembly plant for radio
receiving sets. The ship now standing on its fins upon the apron was
loaded with printed circuits, resistors, variable condensers and other
radio parts. This was Earth's first step toward flooding Zur with the
natural follow-up in its campaign of advertising—radio programs—with
commercials.
  
 
  Happily for the brothers, they did not understand this at the time or
they would surely have gone back to be buried in their own clay.
  
 
  "I think," the governor told them, "that you gentlemen have not
paused to consider the affair from all angles. You must learn to be
modern—keep up with the times! We heads of government on Zur are doing
all in our power to aid the Earthmen and facilitate their bringing a
great, new culture that can only benefit us. See how Zur has changed in
ten short years! Imagine the world of tomorrow! Why, do you know they
are even bringing
   
   autos
   
  to Zur!"
  
 
  The brothers were fascinated with the governor's description of these
hitherto unheard-of vehicles.
  
 
  "It only remains," concluded the governor, "to build highways, and the
Earthmen are taking care of that."
  
 
  At any rate, the brothers Masur were still able to console themselves
that they had their tile business. Tile served well enough for houses
and street surfacing; what better material could be devised for the new
highways the governor spoke of? There was a lot of money to be made
yet.
  
