 
  A Gift From Earth
  
 
  By MANLY BANISTER
  
 
  Illustrated by KOSSIN
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Galaxy Science Fiction August 1955.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
 
 
   Except for transportation, it was absolutely
    
   free ... but how much would the freight cost?
   
 
 
 
  "It is an outrage," said Koltan of the House of Masur, "that the
Earthmen land among the Thorabians!"
  
 
  Zotul, youngest of the Masur brothers, stirred uneasily. Personally, he
was in favor of the coming of the Earthmen to the world of Zur.
  
 
  At the head of the long, shining table sat old Kalrab Masur, in his
dotage, but still giving what he could of aid and comfort to the
Pottery of Masur, even though nobody listened to him any more and
he knew it. Around the table sat the six brothers—Koltan, eldest
and Director of the Pottery; Morvan, his vice-chief; Singula, their
treasurer; Thendro, sales manager; Lubiosa, export chief; and last in
the rank of age, Zotul, who was responsible for affairs of design.
  
 
  "Behold, my sons," said Kalrab, stroking his scanty beard. "What are
these Earthmen to worry about? Remember the clay. It is our strength
and our fortune. It is the muscle and bone of our trade. Earthmen may
come and Earthmen may go, but clay goes on forever ... and with it, the
fame and fortune of the House of Masur."
  
 
  "It
   
   is
   
  a damned imposition," agreed Morvan, ignoring his father's
philosophical attitude. "They could have landed just as easily here in
Lor."
  
 
  "The Thorabians will lick up the gravy," said Singula, whose mind ran
rather to matters of financial aspect, "and leave us the grease."
  
 
  By this, he seemed to imply that the Thorabians would rob the Earthmen,
which the Lorians would not. The truth was that all on Zur were panting
to get their hands on that marvelous ship, which was all of metal, a
very scarce commodity on Zur, worth billions of ken.
  
