Radio stations went up all over Zur and began broadcasting. The people
bought receiving sets like mad. The automobiles arrived and highways
were constructed.
  
 
  The last hope of the brothers was dashed. The Earthmen set up plants
and began to manufacture Portland cement.
  
 
  You could build a house of concrete much cheaper than with tile. Of
course, since wood was scarce on Zur, it was no competition for either
tile or concrete. Concrete floors were smoother, too, and the stuff
made far better road surfacing.
  
 
  The demand for Masur tile hit rock bottom.
  
 
  The next time the brothers went to see the governor, he said, "I cannot
handle such complaints as yours. I must refer you to the Merchandising
Council."
  
 
  "What is that?" asked Koltan.
  
 
  "It is an Earthman association that deals with complaints such as
yours. In the matter of material progress, we must expect some strain
in the fabric of our culture. Machinery has been set up to deal with
it. Here is their address; go air your troubles to them."
  
 
  The business of a formal complaint was turned over by the brothers to
Zotul. It took three weeks for the Earthmen to get around to calling
him in, as a representative of the Pottery of Masur, for an interview.
  
 
  All the brothers could no longer be spared from the plant, even for the
purpose of pressing a complaint. Their days of idle wealth over, they
had to get in and work with the clay with the rest of the help.
  
 
  Zotul found the headquarters of the Merchandising Council as indicated
on their message. He had not been this way in some time, but was not
surprised to find that a number of old buildings had been torn down to
make room for the concrete Council House and a roomy parking lot, paved
with something called "blacktop" and jammed with an array of glittering
new automobiles.
  
 
  An automobile was an expense none of the brothers could afford, now
that they barely eked a living from the pottery. Still, Zotul ached
with desire at sight of so many shiny cars. Only a few had them and
they were the envied ones of Zur.
  
 
  Kent Broderick, the Earthman in charge of the Council, shook hands
jovially with Zotul. That alien custom conformed with, Zotul took a
better look at his host. Broderick was an affable, smiling individual
with genial laugh wrinkles at his eyes. A man of middle age, dressed in
the baggy costume of Zur, he looked almost like a Zurian, except for
an indefinite sense of alienness about him.
  
 
  "Glad to have you call on us, Mr. Masur," boomed the Earthman, clapping
Zotul on the back. "Just tell us your troubles and we'll have you
straightened out in no time."
  
