Broderick clasped his hands behind back, went to the window and stared
down moodily into the street.
  
 
  "You don't know what an overcrowded world is like," he said. "A street
like this, with so few people and vehicles on it, would be impossible
on Earth."
  
 
  "But it's mobbed," protested Zotul. "It gave me a headache."
  
 
  "And to us it's almost empty. The pressure of population on Earth has
made us range the Galaxy for places to put our extra people. The only
habitable planets, unfortunately, are populated ones. We take the least
populous worlds and—well, buy them out and move in."
  
 
  "And after that?"
  
 
  Broderick smiled gently. "Zur will grow. Our people will intermarry
with yours. The future population of Zur will be neither true Zurians
nor true Earthmen, but a mixture of both."
  
 
  Zotul sat in silent thought. "But you did not have to buy us out. You
had the power to conquer us, even to destroy us. The whole planet could
have been yours alone." He stopped in alarm. "Or am I suggesting an
idea that didn't occur to you?"
  
 
  "No," said Broderick, his usually smiling face almost pained with
memory. "We know the history of conquest all too well. Our method
causes more distress than we like to inflict, but it's better—and more
sure—than war and invasion by force. Now that the unpleasant job is
finished, we can repair the dislocations."
  
 
  "At last I understand what you said about the tortoise."
  
 
  "Slow but sure." Broderick beamed again and clapped Zotul on the
shoulder. "Don't worry. You'll have your job back, the same as always,
but you'll be working for us ... until the children of Earth and Zur
are equal in knowledge and therefore equal partners. That's why we had
to break down your caste system."
  
 
  Zotul's eyes widened. "And that is why my brothers did not beat me when
I failed!"
  
 
  "Of course. Are you ready now to take the assignment papers for you and
your brothers to sign?"
  
 
  "Yes," said Zotul. "I am ready."
  
 
