Something was missing here. Natives. There were no natives rushing out
to greet us. No cries of "Cigarettes? Cigarettes?" I caught up with Joe.
  
 
  "What's the story?" I whispered.
  
 
  He shrugged knowingly and continued walking.
  
 
  And then I saw the ship, nose pointing into space, catching the rays of
the sun like a great silver bullet.
  
 
  "What...?" I started.
  
 
  "It's all right," Joe said, smiling.
  
 
  The ship looked vaguely familiar. I noticed the crest of Space II near
the nose, and a lot of things became clear then. I also saw Walsh
standing near one of the huts, a stun gun in his hand.
  
 
  "Hello, Major," he called, almost cheerfully. The gun didn't look
cheerful, though. It was pointed at my head.
  
 
  "Fancy meeting you here, Colonel," I said, trying to match his
joviality. Somehow it didn't quite come off.
  
 
  Joe was walking beside me, waving at the colonel, beaming all over with
happiness.
  
 
  "I see you found your man," Walsh said.
  
 
  I turned rapidly. Joe nodded and kept grinning, a grin that told me he
was getting a big kick out of all this. Like a kid playing a game.
  
 
  I faced Walsh again. "Okay, what's it all about, pal?"
  
 
  "Colonel," Walsh corrected me. "You mustn't forget to say Colonel,
   
   Major
   
  ." He emphasized my rank, and he said it with a sort of ruthless
finality.
  
 
  I waited. I could see he was just busting to tell me how clever he'd
been. Besides, there wasn't much I could do but wait. Not with Walsh
pointing the stun gun at my middle.
  
 
  "We've come a long way since the Academy, haven't we, Major?"
  
 
  "If you mean in miles," I said, looking around at the plants, "we sure
have."
  
 
  Walsh grinned a little. "Always the wit," he said drily. And then the
smile faded from his lips and his eyes took on a hard lustre. "I'm
going to kill you, you know." He said it as if he were saying, "I think
it'll rain tomorrow."
  
 
  Joe almost clapped his hands together with glee. He was really enjoying
this. Another of those funny Terran games.
  
 
  "You gave me a powerful handicap to overcome," Walsh said. "I suppose I
should thank you, really."
  
 
  "You're welcome," I said.
  
 
  "It wasn't easy living down the disgrace you caused me."
  
 
  "It was your own damn fault," I said. "You knew what you were doing
when you decided to cork off."
  
 
  Beside me, Joe chuckled a little, enjoying the game immensely.
  
 
  "You didn't have to report me," Walsh said.
  
 
  "No? Maybe I should have forgotten all about it? Maybe I should have
nudged you and served you orange juice? So you could do it again
sometime and maybe blow up the whole damn Academy!"
  
 
  Walsh was silent for a long time. When he spoke his voice was barely
audible. The heat was oppressive, as if it were concentrated on this
little spot in the jungle, focusing all its penetration on a small,
unimportant drama.
  
 
  I could hear Joe breathing beside me.
  
 
  "I'm on my way out," Walsh rasped. "Finished, do you understand?"
  
 
  "Good," I said. And I meant it.
  
 
  "This Mars thing. A terrible fix. Terrible."
  
 
  Beside me, a slight frown crossed Joe's face. Apparently he couldn't
understand the seriousness of our voices. What had happened to the
game, the fun?
  
 
  "You brought the Mars business on yourself," I told Walsh. "There was
never any trouble before you took command."
  
 
  "The natives," he practically shouted. "They ... they...."
  
 
  Joe caught his breath sharply, and I wondered what Walsh was going to
say about the natives. Apparently he'd realized that Joe was a native.
Or maybe Joe's knife had something to do with it.
  
 
  "What about the natives?" I asked.
  
 
  "Nothing," Walsh said. "Nothing." He was silent for a while.
  
 
  "A man of my calibre," he said then, his face grim. "Dealing with
savages." He caught himself again and threw a hasty glance at Joe.
The perplexed frown had grown heavier on Joe's face. He looked at the
colonel in puzzlement.
  
