Captain Bransten was a mousey, unimpressive sort of man. He was wearing
a tropical tunic, but he still resembled a wilted lily more than he did
an officer.
  
 
  "Have a seat, Major," he offered. He reached for a cigarette box on the
desk and extended it to me. He coughed in embarrassment when he saw it
was empty. Quickly, he pressed a button on his desk and the door popped
open. A tall, blue Venusian stepped lithely into the room.
  
 
  "Sir?" the Venusian asked.
  
 
  "We're out of cigarettes, Joe," the Captain said. "Will you get us
some, please?"
  
 
  "Sure thing," the Venusian answered. He smiled broadly and closed the
door behind him.
  
 
 
   Another Joe
   
  , I thought.
   
   Another damned Joe.
   
 
 
  "They steal them," Captain Bransten said abruptly.
  
 
  "Steal what?" I asked.
  
 
  "Cigarettes. I sometimes think the cigarette is one of the few things
they like about Terran culture."
  
 
  So Walsh had taken care of that angle too.
   
   He does have a peculiar
habit, though. He has an affinity for Terran cigarettes.
   
  Cigarettes
was the tip I should have given; not solars.
  
 
  "All right," I said, "suppose we start at the beginning."
  
 
  Captain Bransten opened his eyes wide. "Sir?" he asked.
  
 
  "What's with all this Joe business? It may be a very original name but
I think its popularity here is a little outstanding."
  
 
  Captain Bransten began to chuckle softly. I personally didn't think it
was so funny. I tossed him my withering Superior Officer's gaze and
waited for his explanation.
  
 
  "I hadn't realized this was your first time on Venus," he said.
  
 
  "Is there a local hero named Joe?" I asked.
  
 
  "No, no, nothing like that," he assured me. "It's a simple culture, you
know. Not nearly as developed as Mars."
  
 
  "I can see that," I said bitingly.
  
 
  "And the natives are only now becoming acquainted with Terran culture.
Lots of enlisted men, you know."
  
 
  I began to get the idea. And I began to appreciate Walsh's doubtful
ancestry more keenly.
  
 
  "It's impossible to tell exactly where it all started, of course,"
Bransten was saying.
  
 
  I was beginning to get angry. Very angry. I was thinking of Walsh
sitting back in a nice cozy foam chair back on Earth.
  
 
  "Get to the point, Captain!" I barked.
  
 
  "Easy, sir," Bransten said, turning pale. I could see that the Captain
wasn't used to entertaining Majors. "The enlisted men. You know how
they are. They'll ask a native to do something and they'll call him
Joe. 'Hey, Joe, give me a hand with this.' Or 'Listen, Joe, how'd you
like to earn some cigarettes?' Do you follow?"
  
 
  "I follow, all right," I said bitterly.
  
 
  "Well," Bransten went on, "that sort of thing mushrooms. The natives
are a simple, almost childish people. It appealed to them—the Joe
business, I mean. Now they're all Joe. They like it. That and the
cigarettes."
  
 
  He cleared his throat and looked at me apologetically as if he were
personally responsible for Venusian culture. In fact, he looked as if
he were responsible for having put Venus in the heavens in the first
place.
  
 
  "Do you understand, Major? Just a case of extended idiom, that's all."
  
 
  Just a case of extended
   
   idiot
   
  , I thought. An idiot on a wild goose
chase a hell of a long way from home.
  
 
  "I understand perfectly," I snapped. "Where are my quarters?"
  
 
  Bransten asked a Venusian named Joe to show me my quarters, reminding
me that chow was at thirteen hundred. As I was leaving, the first
Venusian came back with the cigarettes Bransten had ordered.
  
 
  I could tell by the look on his face that he probably had half a carton
stuffed into his pockets. I shrugged and went to change into a tropical
tunic.
  
 
  I called Earth right after chow. The Captain assured me that this sort
of thing was definitely against regulations, but he submitted when I
twinkled my little gold leaf under his nose.
  
 
  Walsh's face appeared on the screen. He was smiling, looking like a fat
pussy cat.
  
 
  "What is it, Major?" he asked.
  
 
  "This man Joe," I said. "Can you give me any more on him?"
  
 
  Walsh's grin grew wider. "Why, Major," he said, "you're not having any
difficulties, are you?"
  
 
  "None at all," I snapped back. "I just thought I'd be able to find him
a lot sooner if...."
  
 
  "Take your time, Major," Walsh beamed. "There's no rush at all."
  
 
  "I thought...."
  
 
  "I'm sure you can do the job," Walsh cut in. "I wouldn't have sent you
otherwise."
  
 
  Hell, I was through kidding around. "Look...."
  
 
  "He's somewhere in the jungle, you know," Walsh said.
  
 
  I wanted to ram my fist into the screen, right smack up against those
big white teeth. Instead, I cut off the transmission and watched the
surprised look on his face as his screen went blank millions of miles
away.
  
 
  He blinked at the screen, trying to realize I'd deliberately hung up on
him.
  
 
  "Polk!" he shouted, "can you hear me?"
  
 
  I smiled, saw the twisted hatred on his features, and then the screen
on my end went blank, too.
  
 
 
   He's somewhere in the jungle, you know.
   
 
 
  I thanked Captain Bransten for his hospitality and went back to my
quarters.
  
 
  As I saw it, there were two courses for me to follow.
  
 
  One: I could say the hell with Walsh and Venus. That would mean hopping
the next ship back to Earth.
  
 
  It would also mean disobeying the direct order of a superior officer.
It might mean demotion, and it might mean getting bounced out of the
Service altogether.
  
 
  Two: I could assume there really was a guy name Joe somewhere in that
jungle, a Joe separate and apart from the other Joes on this planet, a
trader Joe who knew the Martians well. I could always admit failure, of
course, and return empty handed. Mission not accomplished. Or, I might
really find a guy who was trader Joe.
  
 
  I made my decision quickly. I wanted to stay in the Service, and
besides Walsh may have been on the level for the first time in his
life. Maybe there was a Joe here who could help us on Mars. If there
was I'd try to find him. It was still a hell of a trick though.
  
 
  I cursed Walsh again and pushed the buzzer near my bed.
  
 
  A tall Venusian stepped into the room.
  
 
  "Joe?" I asked, just to be sure.
  
 
  "Who else, boss?" he answered.
  
 
  "I'm trying to locate someone," I said. "I'll need a guide to take me
into the jungle. Can you get me one?"
  
 
  "It'll cost you, boss," the Venusian said.
  
 
  "How much?"
  
 
  "Two cartons of cigarettes at least."
  
 
  "Who's the guide?" I asked.
  
 
  "How's the price sound?"
  
 
  "Fine, fine," I said impatiently. And the Captain had said they were
almost a childish people!
  
 
  "His name is Joe," the Venusian told me. "Best damn guide on the
planet. Take you anywhere you want to go, do anything you want to do.
Courageous. Doesn't know the meaning of fear. I've known him to...."
  
 
  "Skip it," I said, cutting the promotion short. "Tell him to show up
around fifteen hundred with a complete list of what we'll need."
  
 
  The Venusian started to leave.
  
 
  "And Joe," I said, stopping him at the door, "I hope you're not
overlooking your commission on the deal."
  
 
  His face broke into a wide grin. "No danger of that, boss," he said.
  
 
  When he was gone I began figuring out a plan of action. Obviously, I'd
just have to traipse through the jungle looking for a guy named Joe on
a planet where everyone was named Joe. Everybody, at least, but the
Captain, the small garrison attached to the Station, and me.
  
