
  Jon Karyl
  was bolting in a new baffle
plate on the stationary rocket engine.
It was a tedious job and took all his
concentration. So he wasn't paying too much
attention to what was going on in other
parts of the little asteroid.
  
 
  He didn't see the peculiar blue space
ship, its rockets throttled down, as it drifted
to land only a few hundred yards away from
his plastic igloo.
  
 
  Nor did he see the half-dozen steel-blue
creatures slide out of the peculiar vessel's
airlock.
  
 
  It was only as he crawled out of the
depths of the rocket power plant that he
realized something was wrong.
  
 
  By then it was almost too late. The six
blue figures were only fifty feet away, approaching
him at a lope.
  
 
  Jon Karyl took one look and went bounding
over the asteroid's rocky slopes in fifty-foot
bounds.
  
 
  When you're a Lone Watcher, and
strangers catch you unawares, you don't
stand still. You move fast. It's the Watcher's
first rule. Stay alive. An Earthship may depend
upon your life.
  
 
  As he fled, Jon Karyl cursed softly under
his breath. The automatic alarm should have
shrilled out a warning.
  
 
  Then he saved as much of his breath as
he could as some sort of power wave tore
up the rocky sward to his left. He twisted
and zig-zagged in his flight, trying to get
out of sight of the strangers.
  
 
  Once hidden from their eyes, he could cut
back and head for the underground entrance
to the service station.
  
 
  He glanced back finally.
  
 
  Two of the steel-blue creatures were jack-rabbiting
after him, and rapidly closing the
distance.
  
 
  Jon Karyl unsheathed the stubray pistol
at his side, turned the oxygen dial up for
greater exertion, increased the gravity pull
in his space-suit boots as he neared the
ravine he'd been racing for.
  
 
  The oxygen was just taking hold when
he hit the lip of the ravine and began
sprinting through its man-high bush-strewn
course.
  
 
  The power ray from behind ripped out
great gobs of the sheltering bushes. But
running naturally, bent close to the bottom
of the ravine, Jon Karyl dodged the bare
spots. The oxygen made the tremendous
exertion easy for his lungs as he sped down
the dim trail, hidden from the two steel-blue
stalkers.
  
 
  He'd eluded them, temporarily at least,
Jon Karyl decided when he finally edged off
the dim trail and watched for movement
along the route behind him.
  
 
  He stood up, finally, pushed aside the
leafy overhang of a bush and looked for
landmarks along the edge of the ravine.
  
 
  He found one, a stubby bush, shaped like
a Maltese cross, clinging to the lip of the
ravine. The hidden entrance to the service
station wasn't far off.
  
 
  His pistol held ready, he moved quietly
on down the ravine until the old water
course made an abrupt hairpin turn.
  
 
  Instead of following around the sharp
bend, Jon Karyl moved straight ahead
through the overhanging bushes until he
came to a dense thicket. Dropping to his
hands and knees he worked his way under
the edge of the thicket into a hollowed-out
space in the center.
  
 
