
  Jon
  followed him through the sundered
lock of the station. Karyl stopped for a
moment to examine the wreckage of the
lock. It had been punched full of holes as
if it had been some soft cheese instead of a
metal which Earthmen had spent nearly a
century perfecting.
  
 
  "We appreciate your compliment," Steel-Blue
said. "But that metal also is found on
our world. It's probably the softest and most
malleable we have. We were surprised you—earthmen,
is it?—use it as protective
metal."
  
 
  "Why are you in this system?" Jon asked,
hardly expecting an answer.
  
 
  It came anyway. "For the same reason you
Earthmen are reaching out farther into your
system. We need living room. You have
strategically placed planets for our use. We
will use them."
  
 
  Jon sighed. For 400 years scientists had
been preaching preparedness as Earth flung
her ships into the reaches of the solar system,
taking the first long step toward the
conquest of space.
  
 
  There are other races somewhere, they
argued. As strong and smart as man, many
of them so transcending man in mental and
inventive power that we must be prepared to
strike the minute danger shows.
  
 
  Now here was the answer to the scientists'
warning. Invasion by extra-terrestrials.
  
 
  "What did you say?" asked Steel-Blue.
"I couldn't understand."
  
 
  "Just thinking to myself," Jon answered.
It was a welcome surprise. Apparently his
thoughts had to be directed outward, rather
than inward, in order for the Steel-Blues to
read it.
  
 
  He followed the Steel-Blue into the gaping
lock of the invaders' space ship wondering
how he could warn Earth. The Space
Patrol cruiser was due in for refueling at
his service station in 21 days. But by that
time he probably would be mouldering in
the rocky dust of the asteroid.
  
 
  It was pitch dark within the ship but the
Steel-Blue seemed to have no trouble at all
maneuvering through the maze of corridors.
Jon followed him, attached to one tentacle.
  
 
  Finally Jon and his guide entered a circular
room, bright with light streaming from
a glass-like, bulging skylight. They apparently
were near topside of the vessel.
  
 
  A Steel-Blue, more massive than his
guide and with four more pair of tentacles,
including two short ones that grew from the
top of its head, spoke out.
  
 
  "This is the violator?" Jon's Steel-Blue
nodded.
  
 
  "You know the penalty? Carry it out."
  
 
  "He also is an inhabitant of this system,"
Jon's guide added.
  
 
  "Examine him first, then give him the
death."
  
 
  Jon Karyl shrugged as he was led from
the lighted room through more corridors.
If it got too bad he still had the stubray
pistol.
  
 
  Anyway, he was curious. He'd taken on
the lonely, nerve-wracking job of service
station attendant just to see what it offered.
  
 
  Here was a part of it, and it was certainly
something new.
  
 
  "This is the examination room," his
Steel-Blue said, almost contemptuously.
  
 
  A green effulgence surrounded him.
  
 
