
  There
  was a hiss. Simultaneously, as the
tiny microphone on the outside of his
suit picked up the hiss, he felt a chill go
through his body. Then it seemed as if a
half dozen hands were inside him, examining
his internal organs. His stomach contracted.
He felt a squeeze on his heart. His
lungs tickled.
  
 
  There were several more queer motions
inside his body.
  
 
  Then another Steel-Blue voice said:
  
 
  "He is a soft-metal creature, made up of
metals that melt at a very low temperature.
He also contains a liquid whose makeup I
cannot ascertain by ray-probe. Bring him
back when the torture is done."
  
 
  Jon Karyl grinned a trifle wryly. What
kind of torture could this be?
  
 
  Would it last 21 days? He glanced at the
chronometer on his wrist.
  
 
  Jon's Steel-Blue led him out of the alien
ship and halted expectantly just outside the
ship's lock.
  
 
  Jon Karyl waited, too. He thought of the
stubray pistol holstered at his hip. Shoot my
way out? It'd be fun while it lasted. But he
toted up the disadvantages.
  
 
  He either would have to find a hiding
place on the asteroid, and if the Steel-Blues
wanted him bad enough they could tear the
whole place to pieces, or somehow get
aboard the little life ship hidden in the
service station.
  
 
  In that he would be just a sitting duck.
  
 
  He shrugged off the slight temptation to
use the pistol. He was still curious.
  
 
  And he was interested in staying alive as
long as possible. There was a remote chance
he might warn the SP ship. Unconsciously,
he glanced toward his belt to see the little
power pack which, if under ideal conditions,
could finger out fifty thousand miles into
space.
  
 
  If he could somehow stay alive the 21
days he might be able to warn the patrol.
He couldn't do it by attempting to flee, for
his life would be snuffed out immediately.
  
 
  The Steel-Blue said quietly:
  
 
  "It might be ironical to let you warn
that SP ship you keep thinking about. But
we know your weapon now. Already our
ship is equipped with a force field designed
especially to deflect your atomic guns."
  
 
  Jon Karyl covered up his thoughts
quickly. They can delve deeper than the
surface of the mind. Or wasn't I keeping a
leash on my thoughts?
  
 
  The Steel-Blue chuckled. "You get—absent-minded,
is it?—every once in a
while."
  
 
  Just then four other Steel-Blues appeared
lugging great sheets of plastic and various
other equipment.
  
 
  They dumped their loads and began unbundling
them.
  
 
  Working swiftly, they built a plastic
igloo, smaller than the living room in the
larger service station igloo. They ranged instruments
inside—one of them Jon Karyl
recognized as an air pump from within the
station—and they laid out a pallet.
  
 
  When they were done Jon saw a miniature
reproduction of the service station, lacking
only the cannon cap and fin, and with clear
plastic walls instead of the opaqueness of the
other.
  
 
  His Steel-Blue said: "We have reproduced
the atmosphere of your station so that you
be watched while you undergo the torture
under the normal conditions of your life."
  
 
  "What is this torture?" Jon Karyl asked.
  
 
  The answer was almost caressing: "It is
a liquid we use to dissolve metals. It causes
joints to harden if even so much as a drop
remains on it long. It eats away the metal,
leaving a scaly residue which crumbles
eventually into dust.
  
 
  "We will dilute it with a harmless liquid
for you since No. 1 does not wish you to die
instantly.
  
 
  "Enter your"—the Steel-Blue hesitated—"mausoleum.
You die in your own atmosphere.
However, we took the liberty of purifying
it. There were dangerous elements in
it."
  
 
  Jon walked into the little igloo. The
Steel-Blues sealed the lock, fingered dials
and switches on the outside. Jon's space suit
deflated. Pressure was building up in the
igloo.
  
 
  He took a sample of the air, found that
it was good, although quite rich in oxygen
compared with what he'd been using in the
service station and in his suit.
  
 
  With a sigh of relief he took off his helmet
and gulped huge draughts of the air.
  
 
  He sat down on the pallet and waited
for the torture to begin.
  
 
  The Steel Blues crowded about the igloo,
staring at him through elliptical eyes.
  
 
  Apparently, they too, were waiting for the
torture to begin.
  
 
  Jon thought the excess of oxygen was
making him light-headed.
  
 
  He stared at a cylinder which was beginning
to sprout tentacles from the circle.
He rubbed his eyes and looked again. An
opening, like the adjustable eye-piece of a
spacescope, was appearing in the center of
the cylinder.
  
 
  A square, glass-like tumbler sat in the
opening disclosed in the four-foot cylinder
that had sprouted tentacles. It contained a
yellowish liquid.
  
 
  One of the tentacles reached into the
opening and clasped the glass. The opening
closed and the cylinder, propelled by locomotor
appendages, moved toward Jon.
  
 
  He didn't like the looks of the liquid in
the tumbler. It looked like an acid of some
sort. He raised to his feet.
  
 
  He unsheathed the stubray gun and prepared
to blast the cylinder.
  
 
