
  The
  cylinder moved so fast Jon felt his
eyes jump in his head. He brought the
stubray gun up—but he was helpless. The
pistol kept on going up. With a deft movement,
one of the tentacles had speared it
from his hand and was holding it out of
his reach.
  
 
  Jon kicked at the glass in the cylinder's
hand. But he was too slow. Two tentacles
gripped the kicking leg. Another struck him
in the chest, knocking him to the pallet. The
same tentacle, assisted by a new one,
pinioned his shoulders.
  
 
  Four tentacles held him supine. The cylinder
lifted a glass-like cap from the tumbler
of liquid.
  
 
  Lying there helplessly, Jon was remembering
an old fairy tale he'd read as a kid.
Something about a fellow named Socrates
who was given a cup of hemlock to drink.
It was the finis for Socrates. But the old
hero had been nonchalant and calm about
the whole thing.
  
 
  With a sigh, Jon Karyl, who was curious
unto death, relaxed and said, "All right,
bub, you don't have to force-feed me. I'll
take it like a man."
  
 
  The cylinder apparently understood him,
for it handed him the tumbler. It even reholstered
his stubray pistol.
  
 
  Jon brought the glass of liquid under his
nose. The fumes of the liquid were pungent.
It brought tears to his eyes.
  
 
  He looked at the cylinder, then at the
Steel-Blues crowding around the plastic
igloo. He waved the glass at the audience.
  
 
  "To Earth, ever triumphant," he toasted.
Then he drained the glass at a gulp.
  
 
  Its taste was bitter, and he felt hot
prickles jab at his scalp. It was like eating
very hot peppers. His eyes filled with tears.
He coughed as the stuff went down.
  
 
  But he was still alive, he thought in
amazement. He'd drunk the hemlock and
was still alive.
  
 
  The reaction set in quickly. He hadn't
known until then how tense he'd been. Now
with the torture ordeal over, he relaxed. He
laid down on the pallet and went to sleep.
  
 
  There was one lone Steel-Blue watching
him when he rubbed the sleep out of his
eyes and sat up.
  
 
  He vanished almost instantly. He, or another
like him, returned immediately accompanied
by a half-dozen others, including
the multi-tentacled creature known as No. 1.
  
 
  One said,
  
 
  "You are alive." The thought registered
amazement. "When you lost consciousness,
we thought you had"—there was a hesitation—"as
you say, died."
  
 
  "No," Jon Karyl said. "I didn't die. I
was just plain dead-beat so I went to sleep."
The Steel-Blues apparently didn't understand.
  
 
  "Good it is that you live. The torture
will continue," spoke No. 1 before loping
away.
  
 
  The cylinder business began again. This
time, Jon drank the bitter liquid slowly, trying
to figure out what it was. It had a
familiar, tantalizing taste but he couldn't
quite put a taste-finger on it.
  
 
  His belly said he was hungry. He glanced
at his chronometer. Only 20 days left before
the SP ship arrived.
  
 
  Would this torture—he chuckled—last
until then? But he was growing more and
more conscious that his belly was screaming
for hunger. The liquid had taken the edge
off his thirst.
  
 
  It was on the fifth day of his torture that
Jon Karyl decided that he was going to get
something to eat or perish in the attempt.
  
 
  The cylinder sat passively in its niche in
the circle. A dozen Steel-Blues were watching
as Jon put on his helmet and unsheathed
his stubray.
  
 
  They merely watched as he pressed the
stubray's firing stud. Invisible rays licked
out of the bulbous muzzle of the pistol.
The plastic splintered.
  
 
  Jon was out of his goldfish bowl and
striding toward his own igloo adjacent to
the service station when a Steel-Blue
accosted him.
  
 
  "Out of my way," grunted Jon, waving
the stubray. "I'm hungry."
  
 
  "I'm the first Steel-Blue you met," said
the creature who barred his way. "Go back
to your torture."
  
 
  "But I'm so hungry I'll chew off one of
your tentacles and eat it without seasoning."
  
 
  "Eat?" The Steel-Blue sounded puzzled.
  
 
  "I want to refuel. I've got to have food
to keep my engine going."
  
 
  Steel-Blue chuckled. "So the hemlock, as
you call it, is beginning to affect you at
last? Back to the torture room."
  
 
  "Like R-dust," Jon growled. He pressed
the firing stud on the stubray gun. One of
Steel-Blue's tentacles broke off and fell to
the rocky sward.
  
 
  Steel-Blue jerked out the box he'd used
once before. A tentacle danced over it.
  
 
  Abruptly Jon found himself standing on
a pinnacle of rock. Steel-Blue had cut a
swath around him 15 feet deep and five feet
wide.
  
 
  "Back to the room," Steel-Blue commanded.
  
 
  Jon resheathed the stubray pistol,
shrugged non-committally and leaped the
trench. He walked slowly back and reentered
the torture chamber.
  
 
  The Steel-Blues rapidly repaired the damage
he'd done.
  
 
  As he watched them, Jon was still curious,
but he was getting mad underneath at
the cold egoism of the Steel-Blues.
  
 
  By the shimmering clouds of Earth, by
her green fields, and dark forests, he'd
stay alive to warn the SP ship.
  
 
  Yes, he'd stay alive till then. And send
the story of the Steel-Blues' corrosive acid
to it. Then hundreds of Earth's ships could
equip themselves with spray guns and squirt
citric acid and watch the Steel-Blues fade
away.
  
 
  It sounded almost silly to Jon Karyl. The
fruit acid of Earth to repel these invaders—it
doesn't sound possible. That couldn't be
the answer.
  
 
  Citric acid wasn't the answer, Jon Karyl
discovered a week later.
  
 
  The Steel-Blue who had captured him in
the power room of the service station came
in to examine him.
  
 
  "You're still holding out, I see," he observed
after poking Jon in every sensitive
part of his body.
  
 
  "I'll suggest to No. 1 that we increase
the power of the—ah—hemlock. How do
you feel?"
  
 
  Between the rich oxygen and the dizziness
of hunger, Jon was a bit delirious. But he
answered honestly enough: "My guts feel as
if they're chewing each other up. My bones
ache. My joints creak. I can't coordinate I'm
so hungry."
  
 
  "That is the hemlock," Steel-Blue said.
  
 
  It was when he quaffed the new and
stronger draught that Jon knew that his
hope that it was citric acid was squelched.
  
 
  The acid taste was weaker which meant
that the citric acid was the diluting liquid.
It was the liquid he couldn't taste beneath
the tang of the citric acid that was the corrosive
acid.
  
 
  On the fourteenth day, Jon was so weak
he didn't feel much like moving around. He
let the cylinder feed him the hemlock.
  
 
  No. 1 came again to see him, and went
away chuckling, "Decrease the dilution.
This Earthman at last is beginning to
suffer."
  
 
