
  Staying
  alive had now become a fetish
with Jon.
  
 
  On the sixteenth day, the Earthman realized
that the Steel-Blues also were waiting
for the SP ship.
  
 
  The extra-terrestrials had repaired the
blue ship where the service station atomic
ray had struck. And they were doing a little
target practice with plastic bubbles only a
few miles above the asteroid.
  
 
  When his chronometer clocked off the
beginning of the twenty-first day, Jon received
a tumbler of the hemlock from the
hands of No. 1 himself.
  
 
  "It is the hemlock," he chuckled, "undiluted.
Drink it and your torture is over.
You will die before your SP ship is destroyed.
  
 
  "We have played with you long enough.
Today we begin to toy with your SP ship.
Drink up, Earthman, drink to enslavement."
  
 
  Weak though he was Jon lunged to his
feet, spilling the tumbler of liquid. It ran
cool along the plastic arm of his space suit.
He changed his mind about throwing the
contents on No. 1.
  
 
  With a smile he set the glass at his lips
and drank. Then he laughed at No. 1.
  
 
  "The SP ship will turn your ship into
jelly."
  
 
  No. 1 swept out, chuckling. "Boast if you
will, Earthman, it's your last chance."
  
 
  There was an exultation in Jon's heart
that deadened the hunger and washed away
the nausea.
  
 
  At last he knew what the hemlock was.
  
 
  He sat on the pallet adjusting the little
power-pack radio. The SP ship should now
be within range of the set. The space patrol
was notorious for its accuracy in keeping to
schedule. Seconds counted like years. They
had to be on the nose, or it meant disaster
or death.
  
 
  He sent out the call letters.
  
 
  "AX to SP-101 ... AX to SP-101 ... AX
to SP-101 ..."
  
 
  Three times he sent the call, then began
sending his message, hoping that his signal
was reaching the ship. He couldn't know if
they answered. Though the power pack
could get out a message over a vast distance,
it could not pick up messages even
when backed by an SP ship's power unless
the ship was only a few hundred miles
away.
  
 
  The power pack was strictly a distress
signal.
  
 
  He didn't know how long he'd been
sending, nor how many times his weary
voice had repeated the short but desperate
message.
  
 
  He kept watching the heavens and hoping.
  
 
  Abruptly he knew the SP ship was coming,
for the blue ship of the Steel-Blues was
rising silently from the asteroid.
  
 
  Up and up it rose, then flames flickered
in a circle about its curious shape. The ship
disappeared, suddenly accelerating.
  
 
  Jon Karyl strained his eyes.
  
 
  Finally he looked away from the heavens
to the two Steel-Blues who stood negligently
outside the goldfish bowl.
  
 
  Once more, Jon used the stubray pistol.
He marched out of the plastic igloo and ran
toward the service station.
  
 
  He didn't know how weak he was until
he stumbled and fell only a few feet from
his prison.
  
 
  The Steel-Blues just watched him.
  
 
  He crawled on, around the circular pit in
the sward of the asteroid where one Steel-Blue
had shown him the power of his
weapon.
  
 
  He'd been crawling through a nightmare
for years when the quiet voice penetrated
his dulled mind.
  
 
  "Take it easy, Karyl. You're among
friends."
  
 
  He pried open his eyes with his will. He
saw the blue and gold of a space guard's
uniform. He sighed and drifted into unconsciousness.
  
 
