 
  AIDE MEMOIRE
  
 
  BY KEITH LAUMER
  
 
  The Fustians looked like turtles—but
   
  they could move fast when they chose!
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Worlds of If Science Fiction, July 1962.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  Across the table from Retief, Ambassador Magnan rustled a stiff sheet
of parchment and looked grave.
  
 
  "This aide memoire," he said, "was just handed to me by the Cultural
Attache. It's the third on the subject this week. It refers to the
matter of sponsorship of Youth groups—"
  
 
  "Some youths," Retief said. "Average age, seventy-five."
  
 
  "The Fustians are a long-lived people," Magnan snapped. "These matters
are relative. At seventy-five, a male Fustian is at a trying age—"
  
 
  "That's right. He'll try anything—in the hope it will maim somebody."
  
 
  "Precisely the problem," Magnan said. "But the Youth Movement is
the important news in today's political situation here on Fust. And
sponsorship of Youth groups is a shrewd stroke on the part of the
Terrestrial Embassy. At my suggestion, well nigh every member of the
mission has leaped at the opportunity to score a few p—that is, cement
relations with this emergent power group—the leaders of the future.
You, Retief, as Councillor, are the outstanding exception."
  
 
  "I'm not convinced these hoodlums need my help in organizing their
rumbles," Retief said. "Now, if you have a proposal for a pest control
group—"
  
 
  "To the Fustians this is no jesting matter," Magnan cut in. "This
group—" he glanced at the paper—"known as the Sexual, Cultural, and
Athletic Recreational Society, or SCARS for short, has been awaiting
sponsorship for a matter of weeks now."
  
 
  "Meaning they want someone to buy them a clubhouse, uniforms, equipment
and anything else they need to complete their sexual, cultural and
athletic development," Retief said.
  
 
  "If we don't act promptly," Magnan said, "the Groaci Embassy may well
anticipate us. They're very active here."
  
 
  "That's an idea," said Retief. "Let 'em. After awhile they'll go broke
instead of us."
  
 
  "Nonsense. The group requires a sponsor. I can't actually order you to
step forward. However...." Magnan let the sentence hang in the air.
Retief raised one eyebrow.
  
 
  "For a minute there," he said, "I thought you were going to make a
positive statement."
  
