Swarts came half an hour later, and Maitland began his planned
offensive.
  
 
  "What year is this?"
  
 
  Swarts' steely eyes locked with his. "You know what the date is," he
stated.
  
 
  "No, I don't. Not since yesterday."
  
 
  "Come on," Swarts said patiently, "let's get going. We have a lot to
get through this morning."
  
 
  "I
   
   know
   
  this isn't 1950. It's probably not even the 20th Century.
Venus was a morning star before you brought me here. Now it's an
evening star."
  
 
  "Never mind that. Come."
  
 
  Wordlessly, Maitland climbed to his feet, preceded Swarts to the
laboratory, lay down and allowed him to fasten the straps and attach
the instruments, making no resistance at all. When Swarts started
saying a list of words—doubtlessly some sort of semantic reaction
test—Maitland began the job of integrating "csc
  3
  x dx" in his head.
It was a calculation which required great concentration and frequent
tracing back of steps. After several minutes, he noticed that Swarts
had stopped calling words. He opened his eyes to find the other man
standing over him, looking somewhat exasperated and a little baffled.
  
 
  "What year is this?" Maitland asked in a conversational tone.
  
 
  "We'll try another series of tests."
  
 
  It took Swarts nearly twenty minutes to set up the new apparatus. He
lowered a bulky affair with two cylindrical tubes like the twin stacks
of a binocular microscope over Maitland's head, so that the lenses at
the ends of the tubes were about half an inch from the engineer's
eyes. He attached tiny clamps to Maitland's eyelashes.
  
 
  "These will keep you from holding your eyes shut," he said. "You can
blink, but the springs are too strong for you to hold your eyelids down
against the tension."
  
 
  He inserted button earphones into Maitland's ears—
  
 
  And then the show began.
  
 
  He was looking at a door in a partly darkened room, and there were
footsteps outside, a peremptory knocking. The door flew open,
and outlined against the light of the hall, he saw a man with a
twelve-gauge shotgun. The man shouted, "Now I've got you, you
wife-stealer!" He swung the shotgun around and pulled the trigger.
There was a terrible blast of sound and the flash of smokeless
powder—then blackness.
  
 
  With a deliberate effort, Maitland unclenched his fists and tried to
slow his breathing. Some kind of emotional reaction test—what was the
countermove? He closed his eyes, but shortly the muscles around them
declared excruciatingly that they couldn't keep that up.
  
 
  Now he was looking at a girl. She....
  
 
  Maitland gritted his teeth and fought to use his brain; then he had it.
  
 
  He thought of a fat slob of a bully who had beaten him up one day
after school. He remembered a talk he had heard by a politician who had
all the intelligent social responsibility of a rogue gorilla, but no
more. He brooded over the damnable stupidity and short-sightedness of
Swarts in standing by his silly rules and not telling him about this
new world.
  
 
  Within a minute, he was in an ungovernable rage. His muscles tightened
against the restraining straps. He panted, sweat came out on his
forehead, and he began to curse. Swarts! How he hated....
  
 
  The scene was suddenly a flock of sheep spread over a green hillside.
There was blood hammering in Maitland's temples. His face felt hot and
swollen and he writhed against the restraint of the straps.
  
 
  The scene disappeared, the lenses of the projector retreated from his
eyes and Swarts was standing over him, white-lipped. Maitland swore at
him for a few seconds, then relaxed and smiled weakly. His head was
starting to ache from the effort of blinking.
  
 
  "What year is this?" he asked.
  
 
  "All right," Swarts said. "A.D. 2634."
  
 
  Maitland's smile became a grin.
  
