 
  AMBITION
  
 
  By WILLIAM L. BADE
  
 
  Illustrated by L. WOROMAY
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Galaxy Science Fiction October 1951.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  To the men of the future, the scientific
   
  goals of today were as incomprehensible
   
  as the ancient quest for the Holy Grail!
  
 
 
  There was a thump. Maitland stirred, came half awake, and opened his
eyes. The room was dark except where a broad shaft of moonlight from
the open window fell on the foot of his bed. Outside, the residential
section of the Reservation slept silently under the pale illumination
of the full Moon. He guessed sleepily that it was about three o'clock.
  
 
  What had he heard? He had a definite impression that the sound had come
from within the room. It had sounded like someone stumbling into a
chair, or—
  
 
  Something moved in the darkness on the other side of the room. Maitland
started to sit up and it was as though a thousand volts had shorted his
brain....
  
 
  This time, he awoke more normally. He opened his eyes, looked through
the window at a section of azure sky, listened to the singing of birds
somewhere outside. A beautiful day. In the middle of the process of
stretching his rested muscles, arms extended back, legs tensed, he
froze, looking up—for the first time really seeing the ceiling. He
turned his head, then rolled off the bed, wide awake.
  
 
 
   This wasn't his room!
   
 
 
  The lawn outside wasn't part of the Reservation! Where the labs and
the shops should have been, there was deep prairie grass, then a green
ocean pushed into waves by the breeze stretching to the horizon. This
wasn't the California desert! Down the hill, where the liquid oxygen
plant ought to have been, a river wound across the scene, almost hidden
beneath its leafy roof of huge ancient trees.
  
 
  Shock contracted Maitland's diaphragm and spread through his body.
His breathing quickened.
   
   Now
   
  he remembered what had happened during
the night, the sound in the darkness, the dimly seen figure, and
then—what? Blackout....
  
 
  Where was he? Who had brought him here? For what purpose?
  
 
  He thought he knew the answer to the last of those questions. As
a member of the original atomic reaction-motor team, he possessed
information that other military powers would very much like to obtain.
It was absolutely incredible that anyone had managed to abduct him from
the heavily guarded confines of the Reservation, yet someone had done
it. How?
  
