Remembering last night, he felt a pang of exasperation, which he
instantly quelled by taking his mind to a higher and dispassionate
level from which he could look down on the girl and even himself as
quaint, clumsy animals. Still, he grumbled silently, Caddy might have
had enough consideration to clear out before he awoke. He wondered
if he shouldn't have used his hypnotic control of the girl to smooth
their relationship last night, and for a moment the word that would
send her into deep trance trembled on the tip of his tongue. But no,
that special power of his over her was reserved for far more important
purposes.
  
 
  Pumping dynamic tension into his 20-year-old muscles and confidence
into his 60-year-old mind, the 40-year-old Thinker rose from bed.
No covers had to be thrown off; the nuclear heating unit made them
unnecessary. He stepped into his clothing—the severe tunic, tights and
sockassins of the modern business man. Next he glanced at the message
tape beside his phone, washed down with ginger ale a vita-amino-enzyme
tablet, and walked to the window. There, gazing along the rows of newly
planted mutant oaks lining Decontamination Avenue, his smooth face
broke into a smile.
  
 
  It had come to him, the next big move in the intricate game making
up his life—and mankind's. Come to him during sleep, as so many of
his best decisions did, because he regularly employed the time-saving
technique of somno-thought, which could function at the same time as
somno-learning.
  
 
  He set his who?-where? robot for "Rocket Physicist" and "Genius Class."
While it worked, he dictated to his steno-robot the following brief
message:
  
 
  Dear Fellow Scientist:
  
 
  A project is contemplated that will have a crucial bearing on man's
future in deep space. Ample non-military Government funds are
available. There was a time when professional men scoffed at the
Thinkers. Then there was a time when the Thinkers perforce neglected
the professional men. Now both times are past. May they never return!
I would like to consult you this afternoon, three o'clock sharp,
Thinkers' Foundation I.
  
 
  Jorj Helmuth
  
 
  Meanwhile the who?-where? had tossed out a dozen cards. He glanced
through them, hesitated at the name "Willard Farquar," looked at the
sleeping girl, then quickly tossed them all into the addresso-robot and
plugged in the steno-robot.
  
 
  The buzz-light blinked green and he switched the phone to audio.
  
 
  "The President is waiting to see Maizie, sir," a clear feminine voice
announced. "He has the general staff with him."
  
 
  "Martian peace to him," Jorj Helmuth said. "Tell him I'll be down in a
few minutes."
  
