Opperly continued his inspection of the flowers' bells. "All the more
reason not to poke sticks through the bars at the lions and tigers
strolling outside. No, Willard, I'm not counseling appeasement. But
consider the age in which we live. It wants magicians." His voice grew
especially tranquil. "A scientist tells people the truth. When times
are good—that is, when the truth offers no threat—people don't mind.
But when times are very, very bad...." A shadow darkened his eyes.
"Well, we all know what happened to—" And he mentioned three names
that had been household words in the middle of the century. They
were the names on the brass plaque dedicated to the martyred three
physicists.
  
 
  He went on, "A magician, on the other hand, tells people what they
wish were true—that perpetual motion works, that cancer can be cured
by colored lights, that a psychosis is no worse than a head cold, that
they'll live forever. In good times magicians are laughed at. They're a
luxury of the spoiled wealthy few. But in bad times people sell their
souls for magic cures, and buy perpetual motion machines to power their
war rockets."
  
 
  Farquar clenched his fist. "All the more reason to keep chipping away
at the Thinkers. Are we supposed to beg off from a job because it's
difficult and dangerous?"
  
 
  Opperly shook his head. "We're to keep clear of the infection of
violence. In my day, Willard, I was one of the Frightened Men. Later I
was one of the Angry Men and then one of the Minds of Despair. Now I'm
convinced that all my reactions were futile."
  
 
  "Exactly!" Farquar agreed harshly. "You reacted. You didn't act. If
you men who discovered atomic energy had only formed a secret league,
if you'd only had the foresight and the guts to use your tremendous
bargaining position to demand the power to shape mankind's future...."
  
 
  "By the time you were born, Willard," Opperly interrupted dreamily,
"Hitler was merely a name in the history books. We scientists weren't
the stuff out of which cloak-and-dagger men are made. Can you imagine
Oppenheimer wearing a mask or Einstein sneaking into the Old White
House with a bomb in his briefcase?" He smiled. "Besides, that's not
the way power is seized. New ideas aren't useful to the man bargaining
for power—only established facts or lies are."
  
 
  "Just the same, it would have been a good thing if you'd had a little
violence in you."
  
 
  "No," Opperly said.
  
 
  "I've got violence in me," Farquar announced, shoving himself to his
feet.
  
