Huge as a primitive nuclear reactor, the great electronic brain loomed
above the knot of hush-voiced men. It almost filled a two-story room in
the Thinkers' Foundation. Its front was an orderly expanse of controls,
indicators, telltales, and terminals, the upper ones reached by a chair
on a boom.
  
 
  Although, as far as anyone knew, it could sense only the information
and questions fed into it on a tape, the human visitors could not
resist the impulse to talk in whispers and glance uneasily at the great
cryptic cube. After all, it had lately taken to moving some of its
own controls—the permissible ones—and could doubtless improvise a
hearing apparatus if it wanted to.
  
 
  For this was the thinking machine beside which the Marks and Eniacs and
Maniacs and Maddidas and Minervas and Mimirs were less than Morons.
This was the machine with a million times as many synapses as the human
brain, the machine that remembered by cutting delicate notches in the
rims of molecules (instead of kindergarten paper-punching or the Coney
Island shimmying of columns of mercury). This was the machine that had
given instructions on building the last three-quarters of itself. This
was the goal, perhaps, toward which fallible human reasoning and biased
human judgment and feeble human ambition had evolved.
  
 
 
   This was the machine that really thought—a million-plus!
   
 
 
  This was the machine that the timid cyberneticists and stuffy
professional scientists had said could not be built. Yet this was the
machine that the Thinkers, with characteristic Yankee push,
   
   had
   
  built. And nicknamed, with characteristic Yankee irreverence and
girl-fondness, "Maizie."
  
 
  Gazing up at it, the President of the United States felt a chord
plucked within him that hadn't been sounded for decades, the dark and
shivery organ chord of his Baptist childhood. Here, in a strange sense,
although his reason rejected it, he felt he stood face to face with
the living God: infinitely stern with the sternness of reality, yet
infinitely just. No tiniest error or wilful misstep could ever escape
the scrutiny of this vast mentality. He shivered.
  
