Opperly looked up from the flowers. "I think you have," he agreed.
  
 
  "But what are we to do?" Farquar demanded. "Surrender the world to
charlatans without a struggle?"
  
 
  Opperly mused for a while. "I don't know what the world needs now.
Everyone knows Newton as the great scientist. Few remember that
he spent half his life muddling with alchemy, looking for the
philosopher's stone. Which Newton did the world need then?"
  
 
  "Now you are justifying the Thinkers!"
  
 
  "No, I leave that to history."
  
 
  "And history consists of the actions of men," Farquar concluded. "I
intend to act. The Thinkers are vulnerable, their power fantastically
precarious. What's it based on? A few lucky guesses. Faith-healing.
Some science hocus-pocus, on the level of those juke-box burlesque acts
between the strips. Dubious mental comfort given to a few nerve-torn
neurotics in the Inner Cabinet—and their wives. The fact that the
Thinkers' clever stage-managing won the President a doubtful election.
The erroneous belief that the Soviets pulled out of Iraq and Iran
because of the Thinkers' Mind Bomb threat. A brain-machine that's just
a cover for Jan Tregarron's guesswork. Oh, yes, and that hogwash of
'Martian wisdom.' All of it mere bluff! A few pushes at the right times
and points are all that are needed—and the Thinkers know it! I'll bet
they're terrified already, and will be more so when they find that
we're gunning for them. Eventually they'll be making overtures to us,
turning to us for help. You wait and see."
  
 
  "I am thinking again of Hitler," Opperly interposed quietly. "On his
first half dozen big steps, he had nothing but bluff. His generals
were against him. They knew they were in a cardboard fort. Yet he won
every battle, until the last. Moreover," he pressed on, cutting Farquar
short, "the power of the Thinkers isn't based on what they've got, but
on what the world hasn't got—peace, honor, a good conscience...."
  
 
  The front-door knocker clanked. Farquar answered it. A skinny old man
with a radiation scar twisting across his temple handed him a tiny
cylinder. "Radiogram for you, Willard." He grinned across the hall at
Opperly. "When are you going to get a phone put in, Mr. Opperly?"
  
 
  The physicist waved to him. "Next year, perhaps, Mr. Berry."
  
 
  The old man snorted with good-humored incredulity and trudged off.
  
 
  "What did I tell you about the Thinkers making overtures?" Farquar
chortled suddenly. "It's come sooner than I expected. Look at this."
  
 
  He held out the radiogram, but the older man didn't take it. Instead he
asked, "Who's it from? Tregarron?"
  
 
  "No, from Helmuth. There's a lot of sugar corn about man's future in
deep space, but the real reason is clear. They know that they're going
to have to produce an actual nuclear rocket pretty soon, and for that
they'll need our help."
  
 
  "An invitation?"
  
 
  Farquar nodded. "For this afternoon." He noticed Opperly's anxious
though distant frown. "What's the matter?" he asked. "Are you bothered
about my going? Are you thinking it might be a trap—that after the
Maelzel question they may figure I'm better rubbed out?"
  
 
  The older man shook his head. "I'm not afraid for your life, Willard.
That's yours to risk as you choose. No, I'm worried about other things
they might do to you."
  
 
  "What do you mean?" Farquar asked.
  
