 
  Appointment in Tomorrow
  
 
  BY FRITZ LEIBER
  
 
  Illustrated by ED ALEXANDER
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Galaxy Science Fiction July 1951.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
 
  Is it possible to have a world without moral values?
   
  Or does lack of morality become a moral value, also?
  
 
 
  The first angry rays of the sun—which, startlingly enough, still rose
in the east at 24 hour intervals—pierced the lacy tops of Atlantic
combers and touched thousands of sleeping Americans with unconscious
fear, because of their unpleasant similarity to the rays from World War
III's atomic bombs.
  
 
  They turned to blood the witch-circle of rusty steel skeletons around
Inferno in Manhattan. Without comment, they pointed a cosmic finger at
the tarnished brass plaque commemorating the martyrdom of the Three
Physicists after the dropping of the Hell Bomb. They tenderly touched
the rosy skin and strawberry bruises on the naked shoulders of a
girl sleeping off a drunk on the furry and radiantly heated floor of
a nearby roof garden. They struck green magic from the glassy blot
that was Old Washington. Twelve hours before, they had revealed things
as eerily beautiful, and as ravaged, in Asia and Russia. They pinked
the white walls of the Colonial dwelling of Morton Opperly near the
Institute for Advanced Studies; upstairs they slanted impartially
across the Pharoahlike and open-eyed face of the elderly physicist and
the ugly, sleep-surly one of young Willard Farquar in the next room.
And in nearby New Washington they made of the spire of the Thinkers'
Foundation a blue and optimistic glory that outshone White House, Jr.
  
 
  It was America approaching the end of the Twentieth Century. America
of juke-box burlesque and your local radiation hospital. America
of the mask-fad for women and Mystic Christianity. America of the
off-the-bosom dress and the New Blue Laws. America of the Endless War
and the loyalty detector. America of marvelous Maizie and the monthly
rocket to Mars. America of the Thinkers and (a few remembered) the
Institute. "Knock on titanium," "Whadya do for black-outs," "Please,
lover, don't think when I'm around," America, as combat-shocked and
crippled as the rest of the bomb-shattered planet.
  
 
  Not one impudent photon of the sunlight penetrated the triple-paned,
polarizing windows of Jorj Helmuth's bedroom in the Thinker's
Foundation, yet the clock in his brain awakened him to the minute,
or almost. Switching off the Educational Sandman in the midst of the
phrase, "... applying tensor calculus to the nucleus," he took a
deep, even breath and cast his mind to the limits of the world and
his knowledge. It was a somewhat shadowy vision, but, he noted with
impartial approval, definitely less shadowy than yesterday morning.
  
 
  Employing a rapid mental scanning technique, he next cleared his memory
chains of false associations, including those acquired while asleep.
These chores completed, he held his finger on a bedside button, which
rotated the polarizing window panes until the room slowly filled with a
muted daylight. Then, still flat on his back, he turned his head until
he could look at the remarkably beautiful blonde girl asleep beside him.
  
