As the slideway whisked him gently along the corridor toward his
apartment, Jorj was thinking of his spaceship. For a moment the
silver-winged vision crowded everything else out of his mind.
  
 
  Just think, a spaceship with sails! He smiled a bit, marveling at the
paradox.
  
 
  Direct atomic power. Direct utilization of the force of the flying
neutrons. No more ridiculous business of using a reactor to drive a
steam engine, or boil off something for a jet exhaust—processes that
were as primitive and wasteful as burning gunpowder to keep yourself
warm.
  
 
  Chemical jets would carry his spaceship above the atmosphere. Then
would come the thrilling order, "Set sail for Mars!" The vast umbrella
would unfold and open out around the stern, its rear or Earthward side
a gleaming expanse of radioactive ribbon perhaps only an atom thick
and backed with a material that would reflect neutrons. Atoms in the
ribbon would split, blasting neutrons astern at fantastic velocities.
Reaction would send the spaceship hurtling forward.
  
 
  In airless space, the expanse of sails would naturally not retard the
ship. More radioactive ribbon, manufactured as needed in the ship
itself, would feed out onto the sail as that already there became
exhausted.
  
 
  A spaceship with direct nuclear drive—and he, a Thinker, had
conceived it completely except for the technical details! Having
strengthened his mind by hard years of somno-learning, mind-casting,
memory-straightening, and sensory training, he had assured himself
of the executive power to control the technicians and direct their
specialized abilities. Together they would build the true Mars rocket.
  
 
  But that would only be a beginning. They would build the true Mind
Bomb. They would build the true Selective Microbe Slayer. They would
discover the true laws of ESP and the inner life. They would even—his
imagination hesitated a moment, then strode boldly forward—build the
true Maizie!
  
 
  And then ... then the Thinkers would be on even terms with the
scientists. Rather, they'd be far ahead. No more deception.
  
 
  He was so exalted by this thought that he almost let the slideway carry
him past his door. He stepped inside and called, "Caddy!" He waited a
moment, then walked through the apartment, but she wasn't there.
  
