His friends came to life. The first one he saw stir lay on his stomach
and pounded his fists on the beach. A flood of relief settled over
Purnie as sounds came from the animal.
  
 
  "What's the matter with me? Somebody tell me! Am I nuts? Miles! Schick!
What's happening?"
  
 
  "I'm coming, Rhodes! Heaven help us, man—I saw it, too. We're either
crazy or those damn logs are alive!"
  
 
  "It's not the logs. How about us? How'd we get out of the water? Miles,
we're both cracking."
  
 
  "I'm telling you, man, it's the logs, or rocks or whatever they are.
I was looking right at them. First they're on top of me, then they're
piled up over there!"
  
 
  "Damnit, the logs didn't pick us up out of the ocean, did they? Captain
Benson!"
  
 
  "Are you men all right?"
  
 
  "Yes sir, but—"
  
 
  "Who saw exactly what happened?"
  
 
  "I'm afraid we're not seeing right, Captain. Those logs—"
  
 
  "I know, I know. Now get hold of yourselves. We've got to round up the
others and get out of here while time is on our side."
  
 
  "But what happened, Captain?"
  
 
  "Hell, Rhodes, don't you think I'd like to know? Those logs are so old
they're petrified. The whole bunch of us couldn't lift one. It would
take super-human energy to move one of those things."
  
 
  "I haven't seen anything super-human. Those ostriches down there are so
busy eating seaweed—"
  
 
  "All right, let's bear a hand here with the others. Some of them can't
walk. Where's Forbes?"
  
 
  "He's sitting down there in the water, Captain, crying like a baby. Or
laughing. I can't tell which."
  
 
  "We'll have to get him. Miles, Schick, come along. Forbes! You all
right?"
  
 
  "Ho-ho-ho! Seventeen! Seventeen! Seventeen planets, Benson, and they'll
do anything I say! This one's got a mind of its own. Did you see that
little trick with the rocks? Ho-ho!"
  
 
  "See if you can find his gun, Schick; he'll either kill himself or one
of us. Tie his hands and take him back to the ship. We'll be along
shortly."
  
 
  "Hah-hah-hah! Seventeen! Benson, I'm holding you personally responsible
for this. Hee-hee!"
  
