Purnie saw one of the animals hovering around him with a little box.
Thankful for the attention, he stood on his head. "Can you do this?"
He was overjoyed at the reaction. They all started making wonderful
noises, and he felt most satisfied.
  
 
  "Stand back, Captain! Here's the source right here! This little
chuck-walla's hotter than a plutonium pile!"
  
 
  "Let me see that, Miles. Well, I'll be damned! Now what do you
suppose—"
  
 
  By now they had formed a widening circle around him, and he was hard
put to think of an encore. He gambled on trying a brand new trick: he
stood on one leg.
  
 
  "Benson, I must have that animal! Put him in a box."
  
 
  "Now wait a minute, Forbes. Universal Law forbids—"
  
 
  "This is my planet and I am the law. Put him in a box!"
  
 
  "With my crew as witness, I officially protest—"
  
 
  "Good God, what a specimen to take back. Radio-active animals! Why,
they can reproduce themselves, of course! There must be thousands of
these creatures around here someplace. And to think of those damn fools
on Earth with their plutonium piles! Hah! Now I'll have investors
   
   flocking
   
  to me. How about it, Benson—does pioneering pay off or
doesn't it?"
  
 
  "Not so fast. Since this little fellow is radioactive, there may be
great danger to the crew—"
  
 
  "Now look here! You had planned to put
   
   mineral
   
  specimens in a lead
box, so what's the difference? Put him in a box."
  
 
  "He'll die."
  
 
  "I have you under contract, Benson! You are responsible to me, and
what's more, you are on my property. Put him in a box."
  
 
  Purnie was tired. First the time-stopping, then this. While this day
had brought more fun and excitement than he could have hoped for,
the strain was beginning to tell. He lay in the center of the circle
happily exhausted, hoping that his friends would show him some of their
own tricks.
  
 
  He didn't have to wait long. The animals forming the circle stepped
back and made way for two others who came through carrying a box.
Purnie sat up to watch the show.
  
 
  "Hell, Captain, why don't I just pick him up? Looks like he has no
intention of running away."
  
 
  "Better not, Cabot. Even though you're shielded, no telling what
powers the little fella has. Play it safe and use the rope."
  
 
  "I swear he knows what we're saying. Look at those eyes."
  
 
  "All right, careful now with that line."
  
 
  "Come on, baby. Here you go. That's a boy!"
  
