When Purnie started time again, the animal with the noose stood in
open-mouthed disbelief as the rope fell harmlessly to the sand—on the
spot where Purnie had been standing.
  
 
  "My God, he's—he's gone."
  
 
  Then another of the animals, the one with the smoking thing in his
hand, ran a few steps toward the noose, stopped and gaped at the rope.
"All right, you people, what's going on here? Get him in that box. What
did you do with him?"
  
 
  The resumption of time meant nothing at all to those on the beach, for
to them time had never stopped. The only thing they could be sure of
was that at one moment there had been a fuzzy creature hopping around
in front of them, and the next moment he was gone.
  
 
  "Is he invisible, Captain? Where is he?"
  
 
  "Up there, Captain! On those rocks. Isn't that him?"
  
 
  "Well, I'll be damned!"
  
 
  "Benson, I'm holding you personally responsible for this! Now that
you've botched it up, I'll bring him down my own way."
  
 
  "Just a minute, Forbes, let me think. There's something about that
fuzzy little devil that we should.... Forbes! I warned you about that
gun!"
  
 
  Purnie moved across the top of the rockpile for a last look at his
friends. His weight on the end of the first log started the slide.
Slowly at first, the giant pencils began cascading down the short
distance to the sand. Purnie fell back onto solid ground, horrified at
the spectacle before him. The agonizing screams of the animals below
filled him with hysteria.
  
 
  The boulders caught most of them as they stood ankle-deep in the surf.
Others were pinned down on the sand.
  
 
  "I didn't mean it!" Purnie screamed. "I'm sorry! Can't you hear?" He
hopped back and forth near the edge of the rise, torn with panic and
shame. "Get up! Please get up!" He was horrified by the moans reaching
his ears from the beach. "You're getting all wet! Did you hear me?
Please get up." He was choked with rage and sorrow. How could he have
done this? He wanted his friends to get up and shake themselves off,
tell him it was all right. But it was beyond his power to bring it
about.
  
 
  The lapping tide threatened to cover those in the orange surf.
  
