Purnie opened his eyes as consciousness returned. Had his friends gone?
  
 
  He pulled himself along on his stomach to a position between two rocks,
where he could see without being seen. By the light of the twin moons
he saw that they were leaving, marching away in groups of two and
three, the weak helping the weaker. As they disappeared around the
curving shoreline, the voices of the last two, bringing up the rear far
behind the others, fell faintly on his ears over the sound of the surf.
  
 
  "Is it possible that we're all crazy, Captain?"
  
 
  "It's possible, but we're not."
  
 
  "I wish I could be sure."
  
 
  "See Forbes up ahead there? What do you think of him?"
  
 
  "I still can't believe it."
  
 
  "He'll never be the same."
  
 
  "Tell me something. What was the most unusual thing you noticed back
there?"
  
 
  "You must be kidding, sir. Why, the way those logs were off of us
suddenly—"
  
 
  "Yes, of course. But I mean beside that."
  
 
  "Well, I guess I was kind of busy. You know, scared and mixed up."
  
 
  "But didn't you notice our little pop-eyed friend?"
  
 
  "Oh, him. I'm afraid not, Captain. I—I guess I was thinking mostly of
myself."
  
 
  "Hmmm. If I could only be sure I saw him. If only someone else saw him
too."
  
 
  "I'm afraid I don't follow you, sir."
  
 
  "Well, damn it all, you know that Forbes took a pot shot at him. Got
him in the leg. That being the case, why would the fuzzy little devil
come back to his tormentors—back to us—when we were trapped under
those logs?"
  
 
  "Well, I guess as long as we were trapped, he figured we couldn't do
him any more harm.... I'm sorry, that was a stupid answer. I guess I'm
still a little shaky."
  
 
  "Forget it. Look, you go ahead to the ship and make ready for take-off.
I'll join you in a few minutes. I think I'll go back and look around.
You know. Make sure we haven't left anyone."
  
 
  "No need to do that. They're all ahead of us. I've checked."
  
 
  "That's my responsibility, Cabot, not yours. Now go on."
  
