When the three animals went back to join the rest of their group, the
first two resumed walking. Purnie followed along.
  
 
  "Well, Benson, you won't have to look far for materials to use for the
base of the flag pole. Look at that rockpile up there.
  
 
  "Can't use them. They're petrified logs. The ones on top are too high
to carry down, and if we move those on the bottom, the whole works will
slide down on top of us."
  
 
  "Well—that's your problem. Just remember, I want this flag pole to be
solid. It's got to stand at least—"
  
 
  "Don't worry, Forbes, we'll get your monument erected. What's this with
the flag? There must be more to staking a claim than just putting up a
flag."
  
 
  "There is, there is. Much more. I've taken care of all requirements set
down by law to make my claim. But the flag? Well, you might say it
represents an empire, Benson. The Forbes Empire. On each of my flags
is the word FORBES, a symbol of development and progress. Call it
sentiment if you will."
  
 
  "Don't worry, I won't. I've seen real-estate flags before."
  
 
  "Damn it all, will you stop referring to this as a real-estate deal?
What I'm doing is big, man. Big! This is pioneering."
  
 
  "Of course. And if I'm not mistaken, you've set up a neat little escrow
system so that you not only own the planets, but you will virtually own
the people who are foolish enough to buy land on them."
  
 
  "I could have your hide for talking to me like this. Damn you, man!
It's people like me who pay your way. It's people like me who give your
space ships some place to go. It's people like me who pour good money
into a chancey job like this, so that people like you can get away from
thirteen-story tenement houses. Did you ever think of that?"
  
 
  "I imagine you'll triple your money in six months."
  
 
  When they stopped, Purnie stopped. At first he had been interested in
the strange sounds they were making, but as he grew used to them, and
as they in turn ignored his presence, he hopped alongside chattering to
himself, content to be in their company.
  
 
  He heard more of these sounds coming from behind, and he turned to see
the remainder of the group running toward them.
  
 
  "Captain Benson! Here's the flag, sir. And here's Miles with the
scintillometer. He says the radiation's getting stronger over this way!"
  
 
  "How about that, Miles?"
  
 
  "This thing's going wild, Captain. It's almost off scale."
  
