Purnie worked his way down the hill, imploring them to save themselves.
The sounds they made carried a new tone, a desperate foreboding of
death.
  
 
  "Rhodes! Cabot! Can you hear me?"
  
 
  "I—I can't move, Captain. My leg, it's.... My God, we're going to
drown!"
  
 
  "Look around you, Cabot. Can you see anyone moving?"
  
 
  "The men on the beach are nearly buried, Captain. And the rest of us
here in the water—"
  
 
  "Forbes. Can you see Forbes? Maybe he's—" His sounds were cut off by a
wavelet gently rolling over his head.
  
 
  Purnie could wait no longer. The tides were all but covering one of the
animals, and soon the others would be in the same plight. Disregarding
the consequences, he ordered time to stop.
  
 
  Wading down into the surf, he worked a log off one victim, then he
tugged the animal up to the sand. Through blinding tears, Purnie worked
slowly and carefully. He knew there was no hurry—at least, not as far
as his friends' safety was concerned. No matter what their condition
of life or death was at this moment, it would stay the same way until
he started time again. He made his way deeper into the orange liquid,
where a raised hand signalled the location of a submerged body. The
hand was clutching a large white banner that was tangled among the
logs. Purnie worked the animal free and pulled it ashore.
  
 
  It was the one who had been carrying the shiny object that spit smoke.
  
 
  Scarcely noticing his own injured leg, he ferried one victim after
another until there were no more in the surf. Up on the beach, he
started unraveling the logs that pinned down the animals caught there.
He removed a log from the lap of one, who then remained in a sitting
position, his face contorted into a frozen mask of agony and shock.
Another, with the weight removed, rolled over like an iron statue into
a new position. Purnie whimpered in black misery as he surveyed the
chaotic scene before him.
  
 
  At last he could do no more; he felt consciousness slipping away from
him.
  
 
  He instinctively knew that if he lost his senses during a period of
time-stopping, events would pick up where they had left off ... without
him. For Purnie, this would be death. If he had to lose consciousness,
he knew he must first resume time.
  
 
  Step by step he plodded up the little hill, pausing every now and then
to consider if this were the moment to start time before it was too
late. With his energy fast draining away, he reached the top of the
knoll, and he turned to look down once more on the group below.
  
 
  Then he knew how much his mind and body had suffered: when he ordered
time to resume, nothing happened.
  
 
  His heart sank. He wasn't afraid of death, and he knew that if he died
the oceans would roll again and his friends would move about. But he
wanted to see them safe.
  
 
  He tried to clear his mind for supreme effort. There was no
   
   urging
   
  time to start. He knew he couldn't persuade it by bits and pieces,
first slowly then full ahead. Time either progressed or it didn't. He
had to take one viewpoint or the other.
  
 
  Then, without knowing exactly when it happened, his mind took
command....
  
