 
  BIG ANCESTOR
  
 
  By F. L. WALLACE
  
 
  Illustrated by EMSH
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Galaxy Science Fiction November 1954.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
 
   Man's family tree was awesome enough to give every galactic
    
   race an inferiority complex—but then he tried to climb it!
   
 
 
 
  In repose, Taphetta the Ribboneer resembled a fancy giant bow on a
package. His four flat legs looped out and in, the ends tucked under
his wide, thin body, which constituted the knot at the middle. His neck
was flat, too, arching out in another loop. Of all his features, only
his head had appreciable thickness and it was crowned with a dozen long
though narrower ribbons.
  
 
  Taphetta rattled the head fronds together in a surprisingly good
imitation of speech. "Yes, I've heard the legend."
  
 
  "It's more than a legend," said Sam Halden, biologist. The reaction was
not unexpected—non-humans tended to dismiss the data as convenient
speculation and nothing more. "There are at least a hundred kinds of
humans, each supposedly originating in strict seclusion on as many
widely scattered planets. Obviously there was no contact throughout the
ages before space travel—
   
   and yet each planetary race can interbreed
with a minimum of ten others
   
  ! That's more than a legend—one hell of a
lot more!"
  
 
  "It is impressive," admitted Taphetta. "But I find it mildly
distasteful to consider mating with someone who does not belong to my
species."
  
 
  "That's because you're unique," said Halden. "Outside of your own
world, there's nothing like your species, except superficially, and
that's true of all other creatures, intelligent or not, with the sole
exception of mankind. Actually, the four of us here, though it's
accidental, very nearly represent the biological spectrum of human
development.
  
 
 
 
  "Emmer, a Neanderthal type and our archeologist, is around the
beginning of the scale. I'm from Earth, near the middle, though on
Emmer's side. Meredith, linguist, is on the other side of the middle.
And beyond her, toward the far end, is Kelburn, mathematician. There's
a corresponding span of fertility. Emmer just misses being able to
breed with my kind, but there's a fair chance that I'd be fertile with
Meredith and a similar though lesser chance that her fertility may
extend to Kelburn."
  
