At Halden's signal, the lights flared up and the screen became too
bright for anything to be visible.
  
 
  "Go in and get them," said Halden. "We don't want the pests to find out
that the bodies aren't flesh."
  
 
  "It was realistic enough," said Meredith as the crewmen shut off their
machines and went out. "Do you think it will work?"
  
 
  "It might. We had an audience."
  
 
  "Did we? I didn't notice." Meredith leaned back. "Were the puppets
exactly like the pests? And if not, will the pests be fooled?"
  
 
  "The electronic puppets were a good imitation, but the animals don't
have to identify them as their species. If they're smart enough,
they'll know the value of a knife, no matter who uses it."
  
 
  "What if they're smarter? Suppose they know a knife can't be used by a
creature without real hands?"
  
 
  "That's part of our precautions. They'll never know until they try—and
they'll never get away from the trap to try."
  
 
  "Very good. I never thought of that," said Meredith, coming closer. "I
like the way your primitive mind works. At times I actually think of
marrying you."
  
 
  "Primitive," he said, alternately frozen and thawed, though he knew
that, in relation to her, he was
   
   not
   
  advanced.
  
 
  "It's almost a curse, isn't it?" She laughed and took the curse away by
leaning provocatively against him. "But barbaric lovers are often nice."
  
 
  Here we go again, he thought drearily, sliding his arm around her. To
her, I'm merely a passionate savage.
  
 
  They went to his cabin.
  
 
  She sat down, smiling. Was she pretty? Maybe. For her own race, she
wasn't tall, only by Terran standards. Her legs were disproportionately
long and well shaped and her face was somewhat bland and featureless,
except for a thin, straight, short nose. It was her eyes that made
the difference, he decided. A notch or two up the scale of visual
development, her eyes were larger and she could see an extra color on
the violet end of the spectrum.
  
 
  She settled back and looked at him. "It might be fun living with you on
primeval Earth."
  
 
  He said nothing; she knew as well as he that Earth was as advanced as
her own world. She had something else in mind.
  
 
  "I don't think I will, though. We might have children."
  
 
  "Would it be wrong?" he asked. "I'm as intelligent as you. We wouldn't
have subhuman monsters."
  
 
  "It would be a step up—for you." Under her calm, there was tension.
It had been there as long as he'd known her, but it was closer to the
surface now. "Do I have the right to condemn the unborn? Should I make
them start lower than I am?"
  
 
  The conflict was not new nor confined to them. In one form or another,
it governed personal relations between races that were united against
non-humans, but held sharp distinctions themselves.
  
 
  "I haven't asked you to marry me," he said bluntly.
  
 
  "Because you're afraid I'd refuse."
  
 
  It was true; no one asked a member of a higher race to enter a
permanent union.
  
 
  "Why did you ever have anything to do with me?" demanded Halden.
  
 
  "Love," she said gloomily. "Physical attraction. But I can't let it
lead me astray."
  
 
  "Why not make a play for Kelburn? If you're going to be scientific
about it, he'd give you children of the higher type."
  
 
  "Kelburn." It didn't sound like a name, the way she said it. "I don't
like him and he wouldn't marry me."
  
 
  "He wouldn't, but he'd give you children if you were humble enough.
There's a fifty per cent chance you might conceive."
  
