Halden took a deep breath. "Seems all right to me."
  
 
  "To everybody else, too, but the tapeworm hasn't got lungs. He breathes
through a million tubes scattered over his body."
  
 
  It would do no good to explain that Taphetta wasn't a worm, that his
evolution had taken a different course, but that he was in no sense
less complex than Man. It was a paradox that some biologically higher
humans hadn't developed as much as lower races and actually weren't
prepared for the multitude of life-forms they'd meet in space. Firmon's
reaction was quite typical.
  
 
  "If he asks for cleaner air, it's because his system needs it," said
Halden. "Do anything you can to give it to him."
  
 
  "Can't. This is as good as I can get it. Taphetta thought you could do
something about it."
  
 
  "Hydroponics is your job. There's nothing
   
   I
   
  can do." Halden paused
thoughtfully. "Is there something wrong with the plants?"
  
 
  "In a way, I guess, and yet not really."
  
 
  "What is it, some kind of toxic condition?"
  
 
  "The plants are healthy enough, but something's chewing them down as
fast as they grow."
  
 
  "Insects? There shouldn't be any, but if there are, we've got sprays.
Use them."
  
 
  "It's an animal," said Firmon. "We tried poison and got a few, but now
they won't touch the stuff. I had electronics rig up some traps. The
animals seem to know what they are and we've never caught one that
way."
  
 
  Halden glowered at the man. "How long has this been going on?"
  
 
  "About three months. It's not bad; we can keep up with them."
  
 
  It was probably nothing to become alarmed at, but an animal on the ship
was a nuisance, doubly so because of their pilot.
  
 
  "Tell me what you know about it," said Halden.
  
 
  "They're little things." Firmon held out his hands to show how small.
"I don't know how they got on, but once they did, there were plenty of
places to hide." He looked up defensively. "This is an old ship with
new equipment and they hide under the machinery. There's nothing we can
do except rebuild the ship from the hull inward."
  
 
  Firmon was right. The new equipment had been installed in any place
just to get it in and now there were inaccessible corners and crevices
everywhere that couldn't be closed off without rebuilding.
  
 
  They couldn't set up a continuous watch and shoot the animals down
because there weren't that many men to spare. Besides, the use of
weapons in hydroponics would cause more damage to the thing they were
trying to protect than to the pest. He'd have to devise other ways.
  
 
  Sam Halden got up. "I'll take a look and see what I can do."
  
 
  "I'll come along and help," said Meredith, untwining her legs and
leaning against him. "Your mistress ought to have some sort of
privileges."
  
 
  Halden started. So she
   
   knew
   
  that the crew was calling her that!
Perhaps it was intended to discourage Firmon, but he wished she hadn't
said it. It didn't help the situation at all.
  
