Taphetta changed his questioning. "What do you expect to gain from this
discovery of the unknown ancestor?"
  
 
  It was Halden who answered him. "There's the satisfaction of knowing
where we came from."
  
 
  "Of course," rustled the Ribboneer. "But a lot of money and equipment
was required for this expedition. I can't believe that the educational
institutions that are backing you did so purely out of intellectual
curiosity."
  
 
  "Cultural discoveries," rumbled Emmer. "How did our ancestors live?
When a creature is greatly reduced in size, as we are, more than
physiology is changed—the pattern of life itself is altered. Things
that were easy for them are impossible for us. Look at their life span."
  
 
  "No doubt," said Taphetta. "An archeologist would be interested in
cultural discoveries."
  
 
  "Two hundred thousand years ago, they had an extremely advanced
civilization," added Halden. "A faster-than-light drive, and we've
achieved that only within the last thousand years."
  
 
  "But I think we have a better one than they did," said the Ribboneer.
"There may be things we can learn from them in mechanics or physics,
but wouldn't you say they were better biologists than anything else?"
  
 
  Halden nodded. "Agreed. They couldn't find a suitable planet. So,
working directly with their germ plasm, they modified themselves and
produced us. They
   
   were
   
  master biologists."
  
 
  "I thought so," said Taphetta. "I never paid much attention to your
fantastic theories before I signed to pilot this ship, but you've built
up a convincing case." He raised his head, speech ribbons curling
fractionally and ceaselessly. "I don't like to, but we'll have to risk
using bait for your pest."
  
 
  He'd have done it anyway, but it was better to have the pilot's
consent. And there was one question Halden wanted to ask; it had been
bothering him vaguely. "What's the difference between the Ribboneer
contract and the one we offered you? Our terms are more liberal."
  
 
  "To the individual, they are, but it won't matter if you discover as
much as you think you will. The difference is this:
   
   My
   
  terms don't
permit you to withhold any discovery for the benefit of one race."
  
 
  Taphetta was wrong; there had been no intention of withholding
anything. Halden examined his own attitudes.
   
   He
   
  hadn't intended, but
could he say that was true of the institutions backing the expedition?
He couldn't, and it was too late now—whatever knowledge they acquired
would have to be shared.
  
 
  That was what Taphetta had been afraid of—there was one kind of
technical advancement that multiplied unceasingly. The race that could
improve itself through scientific control of its germ plasm had a start
that could never be headed. The Ribboneer needn't worry now.
  
