Sitting with my hands poised near the meshgun trigger, I was ready to
let him have it at the first sight of actual violence.
  
 
  Heraal boomed, "You are responsible for what is to happen now. I have
notified the authorities and you prosecuted will be for causing the
death of a life-form! Suffer, Earthborn ape! Suffer!"
  
 
  "Watch it, Chief," Stebbins yelled. "He's going to—"
  
 
  An instant before my numb fingers could tighten on the meshgun
trigger, Heraal swung that huge sword through the air and plunged it
savagely through his body. He toppled forward onto the carpet with the
sword projecting a couple of feet out of his back. A few driblets of
bluish-purple blood spread from beneath him.
  
 
  Before I could react to the big life-form's hara-kiri, the office door
flew open again and three sleek reptilian beings entered, garbed in the
green sashes of the local police force. Their golden eyes goggled down
at the figure on the floor, then came to rest on me.
  
 
  "You are J. F. Corrigan?" the leader asked.
  
 
  "Y-yes."
  
 
  "We have received word of a complaint against you. Said complaint
being—"
  
 
  "—that your unethical actions have directly contributed to the
untimely death of an intelligent life-form," filled in the second of
the Ghrynian policemen.
  
 
  "The evidence lies before us," intoned the leader, "in the cadaver
of the unfortunate Kallerian who filed the complaint with us several
minutes ago."
  
 
  "And therefore," said the third lizard, "it is our duty to arrest
you for this crime and declare you subject to a fine of no less than
$100,000 Galactic or two years in prison."
  
 
  "Hold on!" I stormed. "You mean that any being from anywhere in the
Universe can come in here and gut himself on my carpet, and
   
   I'm
   
  responsible?"
  
 
  "This is the law. Do you deny that your stubborn refusal to yield to
this late life-form's request lies at the root of his sad demise?"
  
 
  "Well, no, but—"
  
 
  "Failure to deny is admission of guilt. You are guilty, Earthman."
  
