 
  Birds of a Feather
  
 
  By ROBERT SILVERBERG
  
 
  Illustrated by WOOD
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Galaxy Magazine November 1958.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
 
   Getting specimens for the interstellar zoo
    
   was no problem—they battled for the honor—but
    
   now I had to fight like a wildcat to
    
   keep a display from making a monkey of me!
   
 
 
 
  It was our first day of recruiting on the planet, and the alien
life-forms had lined up for hundreds of feet back from my rented
office. As I came down the block from the hotel, I could hear and see
and smell them with ease.
  
 
  My three staff men, Auchinleck, Stebbins and Ludlow, walked shieldwise
in front of me. I peered between them to size the crop up. The aliens
came in every shape and form, in all colors and textures—and all of
them eager for a Corrigan contract. The Galaxy is full of bizarre
beings, but there's barely a species anywhere that can resist the old
exhibitionist urge.
  
 
  "Send them in one at a time," I told Stebbins. I ducked into the
office, took my place back of the desk and waited for the procession to
begin.
  
 
  The name of the planet was MacTavish IV (if you went by the official
Terran listing) or Ghryne (if you called it by what its people were
accustomed to calling it). I thought of it privately as MacTavish IV
and referred to it publicly as Ghryne. I believe in keeping the locals
happy wherever I go.
  
 
  Through the front window of the office, I could see our big gay tridim
sign plastered to a facing wall: WANTED—EXTRATERRESTRIALS! We had
saturated MacTavish IV with our promotional poop for a month preceding
arrival. Stuff like this:
  
 
 
   Want to visit Earth—see the Galaxy's most glittering and exclusive
world? Want to draw good pay, work short hours, experience the thrills
of show business on romantic Terra? If you are a non-terrestrial,
there may be a place for you in the Corrigan Institute of
Morphological Science. No freaks wanted—normal beings only. J. F.
Corrigan will hold interviews in person on Ghryne from Thirdday to
Fifthday of Tenmonth. His last visit to the Caledonia Cluster until
2937, so don't miss your chance! Hurry! A life of wonder and riches
can be yours!
   
 
