I'm a man of principles, like all straightforward double-dealers, and
one of the most important of those principles is that I never let
myself be bullied by anyone. "I deeply regret having unintentionally
insulted your clan, Freeman Heraal. Will you accept my apologies?"
  
 
  He glared at me in silence.
  
 
  I went on, "Please be assured that I'll undo the insult at the earliest
possible opportunity. It's not feasible for us to hire another
Kallerian now, but I'll give preference to the Clan Gursdrinn as soon
as a vacancy—"
  
 
  "No. You will hire me now."
  
 
  "It can't be done, Freeman Heraal. We have a budget, and we stick to
it."
  
 
  "You will rue! I will take drastic measures!"
  
 
  "Threats will get you nowhere, Freeman Heraal. I give you my word I'll
get in touch with you as soon as our organization has room for another
Kallerian. And now, please, there are many applicants waiting—"
  
 
  You'd think it would be sort of humiliating to become a specimen in a
zoo, but most of these races take it as an honor. And there's always
the chance that, by picking a given member of a race, we're insulting
all the others.
  
 
  I nudged the trouble-button on the side of my desk and Auchinleck and
Ludlow appeared simultaneously from the two doors at right and left.
They surrounded the towering Kallerian and sweet-talkingly led him
away. He wasn't minded to quarrel physically, or he could have knocked
them both into the next city with a backhand swipe of his shaggy paw,
but he kept up a growling flow of invective and threats until he was
out in the hall.
  
 
  I mopped sweat from my forehead and began to buzz Stebbins for the next
applicant. But before my finger touched the button, the door popped
open and a small being came scooting in, followed by an angry Stebbins.
  
 
  "Come here, you!"
  
 
  "Stebbins?" I said gently.
  
 
  "I'm sorry, Mr. Corrigan. I lost sight of this one for a moment, and he
came running in—"
  
 
  "Please, please," squeaked the little alien pitifully. "I must see you,
honored sir!"
  
 
  "It isn't his turn in line," Stebbins protested. "There are at least
fifty ahead of him."
  
 
 
 
  "All right," I said tiredly. "As long as he's in here already, I might
as well see him. Be more careful next time, Stebbins."
  
 
  Stebbins nodded dolefully and backed out.
  
