I began to chuckle—more of a tension-relieving snicker than a
full-bodied laugh.
  
 
  "Funny," I said.
  
 
  "What is?" asked the self-styled Wazzenazzian.
  
 
  "These aliens. Big blustery Heraal came in with murder in his eye and
killed
   
   himself
   
  , and the pint-sized Stortulian who looked so meek and
pathetic damn near blew my head off." I shuddered. "Thanks for the
tackle job."
  
 
  "Don't mention it," Gorb said.
  
 
  I glared at the Ghrynian police. "Well? What are you waiting for? Take
that murderous little beast out of here! Or isn't murder against the
local laws?"
  
 
  "The Stortulian will be duly punished," replied the leader of the
Ghrynian cops calmly. "But there is the matter of the dead Kallerian
and the fine of—"
  
 
  "—one hundred thousand dollars. I know." I groaned and turned to
Stebbins. "Get the Terran Consulate on the phone, Stebbins. Have them
send down a legal adviser. Find out if there's any way we can get out
of this mess with our skins intact."
  
 
  "Right, Chief." Stebbins moved toward the visiphone.
  
 
  Gorb stepped forward and put a hand on his chest.
  
 
  "Hold it," the Wazzenazzian said crisply. "The Consulate can't help
you. I can."
  
 
  "You?" I said.
  
 
  "I can get you out of this cheap."
  
 
  "
   
   How
   
  cheap?"
  
 
  Gorb grinned rakishly. "Five thousand in cash plus a contract as a
specimen with your outfit. In advance, of course. That's a heck of a
lot better than forking over a hundred grand, isn't it?"
  
 
  I eyed Gorb uncertainly. The Terran Consulate people probably wouldn't
be much help; they tried to keep out of local squabbles unless they
were really serious, and I knew from past experiences that no officials
ever worried much about the state of my pocketbook. On the other hand,
giving this slyster a contract might be a risky proposition.
  
 
  "Tell you what," I said finally. "You've got yourself a deal—but on
a contingency basis. Get me out of this and you'll have five grand and
the contract. Otherwise, nothing."
  
 
  Gorb shrugged. "What have I to lose?"
  
