It isn't, but another of my principles is to refuse to be swayed by
sentiment. I felt sorry for this being's domestic troubles, but I
wasn't going to break up a good act just to make an alien squirrel
happy—not to mention footing the transportation.
  
 
  I said, "I don't see how we can manage it. The laws are very strict
on the subject of bringing alien life to Earth. It has to be for
scientific purposes only. And if I know in advance that your purpose in
coming isn't scientific, I can't in all conscience
   
   lie
   
  for you, can
I?"
  
 
  "Well—"
  
 
  "Of course not." I took advantage of his pathetic upset to steam right
along. "Now if you had come in here and simply asked me to sign you up,
I might conceivably have done it. But no—you had to go unburden your
heart to me."
  
 
  "I thought the truth would move you."
  
 
  "It did. But in effect you're now asking me to conspire in a fraudulent
criminal act. Friend, I can't do it. My reputation means too much to
me," I said piously.
  
 
  "Then you will refuse me?"
  
 
  "My heart melts to nothingness for you. But I can't take you to Earth."
  
 
  "Perhaps you will send my wife to me here?"
  
 
  There's a clause in every contract that allows me to jettison an
unwanted specimen. All I have to do is declare it no longer of
scientific interest, and the World Government will deport the
undesirable alien back to its home world. But I wouldn't pull a low
trick like that on our female Stortulian.
  
 
  I said, "I'll ask her about coming home. But I won't ship her back
against her will. And maybe she's happier where she is."
  
 
  The Stortulian seemed to shrivel. His eyelids closed half-way to mask
his tears. He turned and shambled slowly to the door, walking like a
living dishrag. In a bleak voice, he said, "There is no hope then. All
is lost. I will never see my soulmate again. Good day, Earthman."
  
 
  He spoke in a drab monotone that almost, but not quite, had me weeping.
I watched him shuffle out. I do have
   
   some
   
  conscience, and I had the
uneasy feeling I had just been talking to a being who was about to
commit suicide on my account.
  
