About fifty more applicants were processed without a hitch. Then life
started to get complicated again.
  
 
  Nine of the fifty were okay. The rest were unacceptable for one reason
or another, and they took the bad news quietly enough. The haul for the
day so far was close to two dozen new life-forms under contract.
  
 
  I had just about begun to forget about the incidents of the Kallerian's
outraged pride and the Stortulian's flighty wife when the door opened
and the Earthman who called himself Ildwar Gorb of Wazzenazz XIII
stepped in.
  
 
  "How did
   
   you
   
  get in here?" I demanded.
  
 
  "Your man happened to be looking the wrong way," he said cheerily.
"Change your mind about me yet?"
  
 
  "Get out before I have you thrown out."
  
 
  Gorb shrugged. "I figured you hadn't changed your mind, so I've changed
my pitch a bit. If you won't believe I'm from Wazzenazz XIII, suppose I
tell you that I
   
   am
   
  Earthborn, and that I'm looking for a job on your
staff."
  
 
  "I don't care
   
   what
   
  your story is! Get out or—"
  
 
  "—you'll have me thrown out. Okay, okay. Just give me half a second.
Corrigan, you're no fool, and neither am I—but that fellow of yours
outside
   
   is
   
  . He doesn't know how to handle alien beings. How many
times today has a life-form come in here unexpectedly?"
  
 
  I scowled at him. "Too damn many."
  
 
  "You see? He's incompetent. Suppose you fire him, take me on instead.
I've been living in the outworlds half my life; I know all there is to
know about alien life-forms. You can use me, Corrigan."
  
 
  I took a deep breath and glanced all around the paneled ceiling of
the office before I spoke. "Listen, Gorb, or whatever your name is,
I've had a hard day. There's been a Kallerian in here who just about
threatened murder, and there's been a Stortulian in here who's about
to commit suicide because of me. I have a conscience and it's troubling
me. But get this: I just want to finish off my recruiting, pack up and
go home to Earth. I don't want you hanging around here bothering me.
I'm not looking to hire new staff members, and if you switch back to
claiming you're an unknown life-form from Wazzenazz XIII, the answer is
that I'm not looking for any of
   
   those
   
  either. Now will you scram or—"
  
 
  The office door crashed open at that point and Heraal, the Kallerian,
came thundering in. He was dressed from head to toe in glittering
metalfoil, and instead of his ceremonial blaster, he was wielding
a sword the length of a human being. Stebbins and Auchinleck came
dragging helplessly along in his wake, hanging desperately to his belt.
  
 
  "Sorry, Chief," Stebbins gasped. "I tried to keep him out, but—"
  
 
  Heraal, who had planted himself in front of my desk, drowned him out
with a roar. "Earthman, you have mortally insulted the Clan Gursdrinn!"
  
