The alien was a pathetic sight: a Stortulian, a squirrely-looking
creature about three feet high. His fur, which should have been a
lustrous black, was a dull gray, and his eyes were wet and sad. His
tail drooped. His voice was little more than a faint whimper, even at
full volume.
  
 
  "Begging your most honored pardon most humbly, important sir. I am a
being of Stortul XII, having sold my last few possessions to travel
to Ghryne for the miserable purpose of obtaining an interview with
yourself."
  
 
  I said, "I'd better tell you right at the outset that we're already
carrying our full complement of Stortulians. We have both a male and a
female now and—"
  
 
  "This is known to me. The female—is her name perchance Tiress?"
  
 
  I glanced down at the inventory chart until I found the Stortulian
entry. "Yes, that's her name."
  
 
  The little being immediately emitted a soul-shaking gasp. "It is she!
It is she!"
  
 
  "I'm afraid we don't have room for any more—"
  
 
  "You are not in full understanding of my plight. The female Tiress,
she is—was—my own Fire-sent spouse, my comfort and my warmth, my life
and my love."
  
 
  "Funny," I said. "When we signed her three years ago, she said she was
single. It's right here on the chart."
  
 
  "She lied! She left my burrow because she longed to see the splendors
of Earth. And I am alone, bound by our sacred customs never to remarry,
languishing in sadness and pining for her return. You
   
   must
   
  take me to
Earth!"
  
 
  "But—"
  
 
  "I must see her—her and this disgrace-bringing lover of hers. I must
reason with her. Earthman, can't you see I must appeal to her inner
flame?
   
   I must bring her back!
   
  "
  
 
  My face was expressionless. "You don't really intend to join our
organization at all—you just want free passage to Earth?"
  
 
  "Yes, yes!" wailed the Stortulian. "Find some other member of my race,
if you must! Let me have my wife again, Earthman! Is your heart a dead
lump of stone?"
  
