I don't mind conning the public from time to time, but I draw the line
at getting bilked myself. "Look, friend, I'm busy, and I'm not known
for my sense of humor. Or my generosity."
  
 
  "I'm not panhandling. I'm looking for a job."
  
 
  "Then try elsewhere. Suppose you stop wasting my time, bud. You're as
Earthborn as I am."
  
 
  "I've never been within a dozen parsecs of Earth," he said smoothly. "I
happen to be a representative of the only Earthlike race that exists
anywhere in the Galaxy but on Earth itself. Wazzenazz XIII is a small
and little-known planet in the Crab Nebula. Through an evolutionary
fluke, my race is identical with yours. Now, don't you want me in your
circus?"
  
 
  "No. And it's not a circus. It's—"
  
 
  "A scientific institute. I stand corrected."
  
 
  There was something glib and appealing about this preposterous phony. I
guess I recognized a kindred spirit or I would have tossed him out on
his ear without another word. Instead I played along. "If you're from
such a distant place, how come you speak English so well?"
  
 
  "I'm not speaking. I'm a telepath—not the kind that reads minds, just
the kind that projects. I communicate in symbols that you translate
back to colloquial speech."
  
 
  "Very clever, Mr. Gorb." I grinned at him and shook my head. "You spin
a good yarn—but for my money, you're really Sam Jones or Phil Smith
from Earth, stranded here and out of cash. You want a free trip back to
Earth. No deal. The demand for beings from Wazzenazz XIII is pretty low
these days. Zero, in fact. Good-by, Mr. Gorb."
  
 
  He pointed a finger squarely at me and said, "You're making a big
mistake. I'm just what your outfit needs. A representative of a
hitherto utterly unknown race identical to humanity in every respect!
Look here, examine my teeth. Absolutely like human teeth! And—"
  
 
  I pulled away from his yawning mouth. "Good-by, Mr. Gorb," I repeated.
  
 
  "All I ask is a contract, Corrigan. It isn't much. I'll be a big
attraction. I'll—"
  
 
  "
   
   Good-by, Mr. Gorb!
   
  "
  
 
  He glowered at me reproachfully for a moment, stood up and sauntered to
the door. "I thought you were a man of acumen, Corrigan. Well, think
it over. Maybe you'll regret your hastiness. I'll be back to give you
another chance."
  
 
  He slammed the door and I let my grim expression relax into a smile.
This was the best con switch yet—an Earthman posing as an alien to get
a job!
  
 
  But I wasn't buying it, even if I could appreciate his cleverness
intellectually. There's no such place as Wazzenazz XIII and there's
only one human race in the Galaxy—on Earth. I was going to need some
real good reason before I gave a down-and-out grifter a free ticket
home.
  
 
  I didn't know it then, but before the day was out, I would have that
reason. And, with it, plenty of trouble on my hands.
  
