"Sorry," the Vinzz said impersonally, in English that was perfect
except for the slight dampening of the sibilants, "but I'm afraid you
cannot play."
  
 
  "Why not?" The emaciated young man began to put on his clothes.
  
 
  "You know why. Your body is worthless. And this is a reputable house."
  
 
  "But I have plenty of money." The young man coughed. The Vinzz
shrugged. "I'll pay you twice the regular fee."
  
 
  The green one shook his head. "Regrettably, I do mean what I say. This
game is really clean."
  
 
  "In a town like this?"
  
 
  "That is the reason we can afford to be honest." The Vinzz' tendrils
quivered in what the man had come to recognize as amusement through
long, but necessarily superficial acquaintance with the Vinzz. His
heavy robe of what looked like moss-green velvet, but might have been
velvet-green moss, encrusted with oddly faceted alien jewels, swung
with him.
  
 
  "We do a lot of business here," he said unnecessarily, for the whole
set-up spelled wealth far beyond the dreams of the man, and he was by
no means poor when it came to worldly goods. "Why don't you try another
town where they're not so particular?"
  
 
  The young man smiled wryly. Just his luck to stumble on a sunny game.
He never liked to risk following his quarry in the same configuration.
And even though only the girl had actually seen him this time, he
wouldn't feel at ease until he had made the usual body-shift. Was
he changing because of Gabriel, he wondered, or was he using his own
discoverment and identification simply as an excuse to cover the fact
that none of the bodies that fell to his lot ever seemed to fit him?
Was he activated solely by revenge or as much by the hope that in the
hazards of the game he might, impossible though it now seemed, some day
win another body that approached perfection as nearly as his original
casing had?
  
 
  He didn't know. However, there seemed to be no help for it now; he
would have to wait until they reached the next town, unless the girl,
seeing him reappear in the same guise, would guess what had happened
and tell her husband. He himself had been a fool to admit to her that
the hulk he inhabited was a sick one; he still couldn't understand
how he could so casually have entrusted her with so vital a piece of
information.
  
