Once the illuminators were extinguished in Gabriel Lockard's hotel
suite, it seemed reasonably certain to the man in the gray suit, as
he watched from the street, that his quarry would not go out again
that night. So he went to the nearest airstation. There he inserted a
coin in a locker, into which he put most of his personal possessions,
reserving only a sum of money. After setting the locker to respond to
the letter combination
   
   bodyguard
   
  , he went out into the street.
  
 
  If he had met with a fatal accident at that point, there would have
been nothing on his body to identify him. As a matter of fact, no real
identification was possible, for he was no one and had been no one for
years.
  
 
  The nondescript man hailed a cruising helicab. "Where to, fellow-man?"
the driver asked.
  
 
  "I'm new in the parish," the other man replied and let it hang there.
  
 
  "Oh...? Females...? Narcophagi...? Thrill-mills?"
  
 
  But to each of these questions the nondescript man shook his head.
  
 
  "Games?" the driver finally asked, although he could guess what was
wanted by then. "Dice...? Roulette...? Farjeen?"
  
 
  "Is there a good zarquil game in town?"
  
 
  The driver moved so he could see the face of the man behind him in the
teleview. A very ordinary face. "Look, colleague, why don't you commit
suicide? It's cleaner and quicker."
  
 
  "I can't contact your attitude," the passenger said with a thin
smile. "Bet you've never tried the game yourself. Each time it
happens, there's a ... well, there's no experience to match it at a
thrill-mill." He gave a sigh that was almost an audible shudder, and
which the driver misinterpreted as an expression of ecstasy.
  
 
  "Each time, eh? You're a dutchman then?" The driver spat out of the
window. "If it wasn't for the nibble, I'd throw you right out of the
cab. Without even bothering to take it down even. I hate dutchmen ...
anybody with any legitimate feelings hates 'em."
  
 
  "But it would be silly to let personal prejudice stand in the way of a
commission, wouldn't it?" the other man asked coolly.
  
 
  "Of course. You'll need plenty of foliage, though."
  
 
  "I have sufficient funds. I also have a gun."
  
 
  "You're the dictator," the driver agreed sullenly.
  
 
 
  II
  
 
  It was a dark and rainy night in early fall. Gabe Lockard was in no
condition to drive the helicar. However, he was stubborn.
  
 
  "Let me take the controls, honey," the light-haired girl urged, but he
shook his handsome head.
  
 
  "Show you I can do something 'sides look pretty," he said thickly,
referring to an earlier and not amicable conversation they had held,
and of which she still bore the reminder on one thickly made-up cheek.
  
 
  Fortunately the car was flying low, contrary to regulations, so that
when they smashed into the beacon tower on the outskirts of the little
town, they didn't have far to fall. And hardly had their car crashed
on the ground when the car that had been following them landed, and a
short fat man was puffing toward them through the mist.
  
 
  To the girl's indignation, the stranger not only hauled Gabe out onto
the dripping grass first, but stopped and deliberately examined the
young man by the light of his minilume, almost as if she weren't there
at all. Only when she started to struggle out by herself did he seem to
remember her existence. He pulled her away from the wreck just a moment
before the fuel tank exploded and the 'copter went up in flames.
  
 
  Gabe opened his eyes and saw the fat man gazing down at him
speculatively. "My guardian angel," he mumbled—shock had sobered him
a little, but not enough. He sat up. "Guess I'm not hurt or you'd have
thrown me back in."
  
 
  "And that's no joke," the fat man agreed.
  
 
  The girl shivered and at that moment Gabriel suddenly seemed to recall
that he had not been alone. "How about Helen? She on course?"
  
 
  "Seems to be," the fat man said. "You all right, miss?" he asked,
glancing toward the girl without, she thought, much apparent concern.
  
 
  "
   
   Mrs.
   
  ," Gabriel corrected. "Allow me to introduce you to Mrs. Gabriel
Lockard," he said, bowing from his seated position toward the girl.
"Pretty bauble, isn't she?"
  
 
  "I'm delighted to meet you, Mrs. Gabriel Lockard," the fat man said,
looking at her intently. His small eyes seemed to strip the make-up
from her cheek and examine the livid bruise underneath. "I hope
you'll be worthy of the name." The light given off by the flaming
car flickered on his face and Gabriel's and, she supposed, hers too.
Otherwise, darkness surrounded the three of them.
  
 
  There were no public illuminators this far out—even in town the
lights were dimming and not being replaced fast enough nor by the
newer models. The town, the civilization, the planet all were old and
beginning to slide downhill....
  
 
  Gabe gave a short laugh, for no reason that she could see.
  
