 
  Bodyguard
  
 
  By CHRISTOPHER GRIMM
  
 
  Illustrated by CAVAT
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Galaxy Science Fiction February 1956.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
 
   When overwhelming danger is constantly present,of course
    
   a man is entitled to have a bodyguard. The annoyance was that
    
   he had to do it himself ... and his body would not cooperate!
   
 
 
 
  The man at the bar was exceptionally handsome, and he knew it. So did
the light-haired girl at his side, and so did the nondescript man in
the gray suit who was watching them from a booth in the corner.
  
 
  Everyone in the room was aware of the big young man, and most of the
humans present were resentful, for he handled himself consciously and
arrogantly, as if his appearance alone were enough to make him superior
to anyone. Even the girl with him was growing restless, for she was
accustomed to adulation herself, and next to Gabriel Lockard she was
almost ordinary-looking.
  
 
  As for the extraterrestrials—it was a free bar—they were merely
amused, since to them all men were pathetically and irredeemably
hideous.
  
 
  Gabe threw his arm wide in one of his expansive gestures. There was a
short man standing next to the pair—young, as most men and women were
in that time, thanks to the science which could stave off decay, though
not death—but with no other apparent physical virtue, for plastic
surgery had not fulfilled its bright promise of the twentieth century.
  
 
  The drink he had been raising to his lips splashed all over his
clothing; the glass shattered at his feet. Now he was not only a rather
ugly little man, but also a rather ridiculous one—or at least he felt
he was, which was what mattered.
  
 
  "Sorry, colleague," Gabe said lazily. "All my fault. You must let me
buy you a replacement." He gestured to the bartender. "Another of the
same for my fellow-man here."
  
 
  The ugly man dabbed futilely at his dripping trousers with a cloth
hastily supplied by the management.
  
 
  "You must allow me to pay your cleaning bill," Gabe said, taking out
his wallet and extracting several credit notes without seeming to look
at them. "Here, have yourself a new suit on me."
   
   You could use one
   
  was implied.
  
 
  And that, coming on top of Gabriel Lockard's spectacular appearance,
was too much. The ugly man picked up the drink the bartender had just
set before him and started to hurl it, glass and all, into Lockard's
handsome face.
  
