It was beginning to snow. Light, feathery flakes drifted down on her
husband's immobile body. She pulled her thick coat—of fur taken from
some animal who had lived and died light-years away—more closely about
herself. The thin young man began to cough again.
  
 
  Overhead a tiny star seemed to detach itself from the pale flat disk
of the Moon and hurl itself upward—one of the interstellar ships
embarking on its long voyage to distant suns. She wished that somehow
she could be on it, but she was here, on this solitary old world in a
barren solar system, with her unconscious husband and a strange man who
followed them, and it looked as if here she would stay ... all three of
them would stay....
  
 
  "If you're after Gabriel, planning to hurt him," she asked, "why then
do you keep helping him?"
  
 
  "I am not helping
   
   him
   
  . And he knows that."
  
 
  "You'll change again tonight, won't you?" she babbled. "You always
change after you ... meet us? I think I'm beginning to be able to
identify you now, even when you're ... wearing a new body; there's
something about you that doesn't change."
  
 
  "Too bad he got married," the young man said. "I could have followed
him for an eternity and he would never have been able to pick me out
from the crowd. Too bad he got married anyway," he added, his voice
less impersonal, "for your sake."
  
 
  She had come to the same conclusion in her six months of marriage, but
she would not admit that to an outsider. Though this man was hardly an
outsider; he was part of their small family group—as long as she had
known Gabriel, so long he must have known her. And she began to suspect
that he was even more closely involved than that.
  
 
  "Why must you change again?" she persisted, obliquely approaching the
subject she feared. "You have a pretty good body there. Why run the
risk of getting a bad one?"
  
 
  "This isn't a good body," he said. "It's diseased. Sure, nobody's
supposed to play the game who hasn't passed a thorough medical
examination. But in the places to which your husband has been leading
me, they're often not too particular, as long as the player has plenty
of foliage."
  
 
  "How—long will it last you?"
  
 
  "Four or five months, if I'm careful." He smiled. "But don't worry, if
that's what you're doing; I'll get it passed on before then. It'll be
expensive—that's all. Bad landing for the guy who gets it, but then
it was tough on me too, wasn't it?"
  
 
  "But how did you get into this ... pursuit?" she asked again. "And why
are you doing it?" People didn't have any traffic with Gabriel Lockard
for fun, not after they got to know him. And this man certainly should
know him better than most.
  
 
  "Ask your husband."
  
 
  The original Gabriel Lockard looked down at the prostrate,
snow-powdered figure of the man who had stolen his body and his name,
and stirred it with his toe. "I'd better call a cab—he might freeze to
death."
  
 
  He signaled and a cab came.
  
 
  "Tell him, when he comes to," he said to the girl as he and the driver
lifted the heavy form of her husband into the helicar, "that I'm
getting pretty tired of this." He stopped for a long spell of coughing.
"Tell him that sometimes I wonder whether cutting off my nose wouldn't,
in the long run, be most beneficial for my face."
  
