There was the feeling that she had encountered the fat man before,
which was, of course, absurd. She had an excellent memory for faces and
his was not included in her gallery. The girl pulled her thin jacket
closer about her chilly body. "Aren't you going to introduce your—your
friend to me, Gabe?"
  
 
  "I don't know who he is," Gabe said almost merrily, "except that he's
no friend of mine. Do you have a name, stranger?"
  
 
  "Of course I have a name." The fat man extracted an identification
card from his wallet and read it. "Says here I'm Dominic Bianchi, and
Dominic Bianchi is a retail milgot dealer.... Only he isn't a retail
milgot dealer any more; the poor fellow went bankrupt a couple of weeks
ago, and now he isn't ... anything."
  
 
  "You saved our lives," the girl said. "I'd like to give you some token
of my—of our appreciation." Her hand reached toward her credit-carrier
with deliberate insult. He might have saved her life, but only
casually, as a by-product of some larger scheme, and her appreciation
held little gratitude.
  
 
  The fat man shook his head without rancor. "I have plenty of money,
thank you, Mrs. Gabriel Lockard.... Come," he addressed her husband,
"if you get up, I'll drive you home. I warn you, be more careful in the
future! Sometimes," he added musingly, "I almost wish you would let
something happen. Then my problem would not be any problem, would it?"
  
 
  Gabriel shivered. "I'll be careful," he vowed. "I promise—I'll be
careful."
  
 
 
 
  When he was sure that his charge was safely tucked in for the night,
the fat man checked his personal possessions. He then requested a taxi
driver to take him to the nearest zarquil game. The driver accepted the
commission phlegmatically. Perhaps he was more hardened than the others
had been; perhaps he was unaware that the fat man was not a desperate
or despairing individual seeking one last chance, but what was known
colloquially as a flying dutchman, a man, or woman, who went from
one zarquil game to another, loving the thrill of the sport, if you
could call it that, for its own sake, and not for the futile hope it
extended and which was its sole shred of claim to moral justification.
Perhaps—and this was the most likely hypothesis—he just didn't care.
  
 
  Zarquil was extremely illegal, of course—so much so that there were
many legitimate citizens who weren't quite sure just what the word
implied, knowing merely that it was one of those nameless horrors so
deliciously hinted at by the fax sheets under the generic term of
"crimes against nature." Actually the phrase was more appropriate to
zarquil than to most of the other activities to which it was commonly
applied. And this was one crime—for it was crime in law as well as
nature—in which victim had to be considered as guilty as perpetrator;
otherwise the whole legal structure of society would collapse.
  
