Playing the game was fabulously expensive; it had to be to make it
profitable for the Vinzz to run it. Those odd creatures from Altair's
seventh planet cared nothing for the welfare of the completely alien
human beings; all they wanted was to feather their own pockets with
interstellar credits, so that they could return to Vinau and buy many
slaves. For, on Vinau, bodies were of little account, and so to them
zarquil was the equivalent of the terrestrial game musical chairs.
Which was why they came to Terra to make profits—there has never been
big money in musical chairs as such.
  
 
  When the zarquil operators were apprehended, which was not frequent—as
they had strange powers, which, not being definable, were beyond the
law—they suffered their sentences with equanimity. No Earth court
could give an effective prison sentence to a creature whose life
spanned approximately two thousand terrestrial years. And capital
punishment had become obsolete on Terra, which very possibly saved the
terrestrials embarrassment, for it was not certain that their weapons
could kill the Vinzz ... or whether, in fact, the Vinzz merely expired
after a period of years out of sheer boredom. Fortunately, because
trade was more profitable than war, there had always been peace between
Vinau and Terra, and, for that reason, Terra could not bar the entrance
of apparently respectable citizens of a friendly planet.
  
 
  The taxi driver took the fat man to one of the rather seedy locales in
which the zarquil games were usually found, for the Vinzz attempted to
conduct their operations with as much unobtrusiveness as was possible.
But the front door swung open on an interior that lacked the opulence
of the usual Vinoz set-up; it was down-right shabby, the dim olive
light hinting of squalor rather than forbidden pleasures. That was
the trouble in these smaller towns—you ran greater risks of getting
involved in games where the players had not been carefully screened.
  
 
  The Vinoz games were usually clean, because that paid off better, but,
when profits were lacking, the Vinzz were capable of sliding off into
darkside practices. Naturally the small-town houses were more likely to
have trouble in making ends meet, because everybody in the parish knew
everybody else far too well.
  
 
  The fat man wondered whether that had been his quarry's motive in
coming to such desolate, off-trail places—hoping that eventually
disaster would hit the one who pursued him. Somehow, such a plan seemed
too logical for the man he was haunting.
  
 
  However, beggars could not be choosers. The fat man paid off the
heli-driver and entered the zarquil house. "One?" the small green
creature in the slightly frayed robe asked.
  
 
  "One," the fat man answered.
  
 
 
  III
  
 
  The would-be thief fled down the dark alley, with the hot bright rays
from the stranger's gun lancing out after him in flamboyant but futile
patterns. The stranger, a thin young man with delicate, angular
features, made no attempt to follow. Instead, he bent over to examine
Gabriel Lockard's form, appropriately outstretched in the gutter. "Only
weighted out," he muttered, "he'll be all right. Whatever possessed you
two to come out to a place like this?"
  
 
  "I really think Gabriel
   
   must
   
  be possessed...." the girl said, mostly
to herself. "I had no idea of the kind of place it was going to be
until he brought me here. The others were bad, but this is even worse.
It almost seems as if he went around looking for trouble, doesn't it?"
  
 
  "It does indeed," the stranger agreed, coughing a little. It was
growing colder and, on this world, the cities had no domes to protect
them from the climate, because it was Earth and the air was breathable
and it wasn't worth the trouble of fixing up.
  
 
  The girl looked closely at him. "You look different, but you
   
   are
   
  the
same man who pulled us out of that aircar crash, aren't you? And before
that the man in the gray suit? And before that...?"
  
 
  The young man's cheekbones protruded as he smiled. "Yes, I'm all of
them."
  
 
  "Then what they say about the zarquil games is true? There are people
who go around changing their bodies like—like hats?" Automatically she
reached to adjust the expensive bit of blue synthetic on her moon-pale
hair, for she was always conscious of her appearance; if she had not
been so before marriage, Gabriel would have taught her that.
  
