 
  BREAKDOWN
  
 
  By HERBERT D. KASTLE
  
 
  Illustrated by COWLES
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Galaxy Magazine June 1961.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
 
  He didn't know exactly when it had started, but it had been going on
for weeks. Edna begged him to see the doctor living in that new house
two miles past Dugan's farm, but he refused. He point-blank refused to
admit he was sick
   
   that
   
  way—in the head!
  
 
  Of course, a man could grow forgetful. He had to admit there were
moments when he had all sorts of mixed-up memories and thoughts in his
mind. And sometimes—like right now, lying in bed beside Edna, watching
the first hint of light touch the windows—he began sweating with fear.
A horrible, gut-wrenching fear, all the more horrible because it was
based on nothing.
  
 
  The chicken-run came alive; the barn followed minutes later. There were
chores to do, the same chores he'd done all his forty-one years. Except
that now, with the new regulations about wheat and corn, he had only
a vegetable patch to farm. Sure, he got paid for letting the fields
remain empty. But it just didn't seem right, all that land going to
waste....
  
 
 
   Davie. Blond hair and a round, tanned face and strong arms growing
stronger each day from helping out after school.
   
 
 
  He turned and shook Edna. "What happened to Davie?"
  
 
  She cleared her throat, mumbled, "Huh? What happened to who?"
  
 
  "I said, what...." But then it slipped away. Davie? No, that was part
of a dream he'd had last week. He and Edna had no children.
  
 
  He felt the fear again, and got up fast to escape it. Edna opened her
eyes as soon as his weight left the bed. "Like hotcakes for breakfast?"
  
 
  "Eggs," he said. "Bacon." And then, seeing her face change, he
remembered. "Course," he muttered. "Can't have bacon. Rationed."
  
 
  She was fully awake now. "If you'd only go see Dr. Hamming, Harry. Just
for a checkup. Or let me call him so he could—"
  
 
  "You stop that! You stop that right now, and for good! I don't want to
hear no more about doctors. I get laid up, I'll call one. And it won't
be that Hamming who I ain't never seen in my life! It'll be Timkins,
who took care'n us and brought our son into the world and...."
  
 
  She began to cry, and he realized he'd said something crazy again. They
had no son, never had a son. And Timkins—he'd died and they'd gone to
his funeral. Or so Edna said.
  
 
  He himself just couldn't remember it.
  
 
  He went to the bed and sat down beside her. "Sorry. That was just a
dream I had. I'm still half asleep this morning. Couldn't fall off last
night, not till real late. Guess I'm a little nervous, what with all
the new regulations and not working regular. I never meant we had a
son." He waited then, hoping she'd say they
   
   had
   
  had a son, and he'd
died or gone away. But of course she didn't.
  
