"I'd like to get a look at you," he said.
  
 
  The girl laughed self-consciously. "It's getting gray out. You'll see
me soon enough."
  
 
  But she'd see
   
   him
   
  , Roddie realized. He had to talk fast.
  
 
  "What'll we do when it's light?" he asked.
  
 
  "Well, I guess the boats have gone," Ida said. "You could swim the
Gate, I guess—you seem tall and strong enough. But I couldn't. You'll
think it's crazy, but I've given this some thought, and even looked it
over from the other side. I expect to try the Golden Gate Bridge!"
  
 
  Now he was getting somewhere! The bridge was ruined, impassable. Even
her own people had crossed the Strait by other means. But if there
   
   were
   
  a way over the bridge....
  
 
  "It's broken," he said. "How in the world can we cross it?"
  
 
  "Oh, you'll find out, if you take me up there. I—I don't want to be
alone, Roddie. Will you go with me? Now?"
  
 
  Well, she could be made to point out the route before he killed
her—
   
   if
   
  nothing happened when she saw him.
  
 
  Uneasy, Roddie hefted the hammer in his hand.
  
 
  A giggle broke the pause. "It's nice of you to wait and let me go first
up the ladder," the girl said. "But where the heck is the rusty old
thing?"
  
 
  "I'll go first," said Roddie. He might need the advantage. "The
ladder's right behind me."
  
 
  He climbed with hammer in teeth, and stretched his left hand from
street level to grasp and neutralize the girl's right. Then, nervously
fingering his weapon, he stared at her in the thin gray dawn.
  
 
  She was short and lean, except for roundnesses here and there. From her
shapeless doeskin dress stretched slender legs that tapered to feet
that were bare, tiny, and, like her hands, only two in number.
  
 
  Roddie was pleased. They were evenly matched as to members, and that
would make things easy when the time came.
  
 
  He looked into her face. It smiled at him, tanned and ruddy, with a
full mouth and bright dark eyes that hid under long lashes when he
looked too long.
  
 
  Startling, those wary eyes. Concealing. For a moment he felt a rush of
fear, but she gave his hand a squeeze before twisting loose, and burst
into sudden laughter.
  
 
  "Diapers!" she chortled, struggling to keep her voice low. "My big,
strong, blond and blue-eyed hero goes into battle wearing diapers, and
carrying only a hammer to fight with! You're the most unforgettable
character I have ever known!"
  
 
  He'd passed inspection, then—so far. He expelled his withheld breath,
and said, "I think you'll find me a little odd, in some ways."
  
 
  "Oh, not at all," Ida replied quickly. "Different, yes, but I wouldn't
say odd."
  
