Quickly, Roddie drew the hammer from his waist. Then, with weapon ready
for an instantaneous blow, he stretched his left hand through the
darkness. He touched something warm, softish. Gingerly he felt over
that curving surface for identifying features.
  
 
  While Roddie investigated by touch, his long fingers were suddenly
seized and bitten. At the same time, his right shin received a savage
kick. And his own retaliatory blow was checked in mid-swing by an
unexpected voice.
  
 
  "Get your filthy hands off me!" it whispered angrily. "Who do you think
you are?"
  
 
  Startled, he dropped his hammer. "I'm Roddie," he said, squatting to
fumble for it. "Who do you think
   
   you
   
  are?"
  
 
  "I'm Ida, naturally! Just how many girls
   
   are
   
  there in this raiding
party?"
  
 
  His first Invader—and he had dropped his weapon!
  
 
  Scrabbling fearfully in the dust for his hammer, Roddie paused
suddenly. This girl—whatever
   
   that
   
  was—seemed to think him one of
her own kind. There was a chance, not much, but worth taking, to turn
delay to advantage. Maybe he could learn something of value before he
killed her. That would make the soldiers accept him!
  
 
  He stalled, seeking a gambit. "How would
   
   I
   
  know how many girls there
are?"
  
 
  Half expecting a blow, he got instead an apology. "I'm sorry," the girl
said. "I should have known. Never even heard your name before, either.
Roddie.... Whose boat did you come in, Roddie?"
  
 
  Boat? What was a boat? "How would I know?" he repeated, voice tight
with fear of discovery.
  
 
  If she noticed the tension, she didn't show it. Certainly her whisper
was friendly enough. "Oh, you're one of the fellows from Bodega, then.
They shoved a boy into our boat at the last minute, too. Tough, wasn't
it, getting separated in the fog and tide like that? If only we didn't
have to use boats.... But, say, how are we going to get away from here?"
  
 
  "I wouldn't know," Roddie said, closing his fingers on the hammer, and
rising. "How did you get in?"
  
 
  "Followed your footprints. It was sundown and I saw human tracks in the
dust and they led me here. Where were you?"
  
 
  "Scouting around," Roddie said vaguely. "How did you know I was a man
when I came back?"
  
 
  "Because you couldn't see me, silly! You know perfectly well these
androids are heat-sensitive and can locate us in the dark!"
  
 
  Indeed he did know! Many times he'd felt ashamed that Molly could find
him whenever she wanted to, even here in the manhole. But perhaps the
manhole would help him now to redeem himself....
  
