He'd never gone as far as the bridge before, not having wanted to
look as if he might be leaving the city. The approach was a jungle of
concrete with an underbrush of reinforcing-steel that reached for the
unwary with rusted spines. Frequently they had to balance on cracked
girders, and inch over roadless spots high off the ground.
  
 
  Here Ida took the lead. When they got to where three approach roads
made a clover-leaf, she led him down a side road and into a forest.
  
 
  Roddie stopped, and seized her arm.
  
 
  "What are you trying to do?" he demanded.
  
 
  "I'm taking you with me," Ida said firmly. "Taking you where you
belong!"
  
 
  "No!" he blurted, drawing his hammer. "I can't go, nor let you go. I
belong here!"
  
 
  Ida gasped, twisted loose, and ran. Roddie ran after her.
  
 
  She wasn't so easily caught. Like a frightened doe, she dashed in and
out among the trees, leaped to the bridge's underpinnings where they
thrust rustedly from a cliff, and scrambled up the ramp.
  
 
  Roddie sighed and slowed down. The pavement ended just beyond the cable
anchors. From there to the south tower, only an occasional dangling
support wire showed where the actual bridge had been suspended. Ida was
trapped.
  
 
  He could take his time. Let the soldiers come up, as they undoubtedly
would, to finish the job....
  
 
  But Ida didn't seem to realize she was trapped. Without hesitation she
dashed up the main left-hand suspension cable and ran along its curved
steel surface.
  
 
  For a moment, Roddie thought of letting her go, letting her run up the
ever-steepening catenary until—because there were no guard-ropes or
handgrips—she simply fell. That would solve his problem.
  
 
  Except it wouldn't be
   
   his
   
  solution. Her death wouldn't prove him to
his friends.
  
 
  He set out quickly, before Ida was lost to sight in the thick fog
that billowed in straight from the ocean. At first he ran erect along
the top of the yard-wide cylinder of twisted metal, but soon the curve
steepened. He had to go on all fours, clinging palm and sole.
  
 
  Blood was on the cable where she'd passed. More blood stained it when
he'd followed.
  
 
  But because his friends knew neither pain nor fatigue, Roddie would
admit none either. Nor would he give in to the fear that dizzied him at
every downward look. He scrambled on like an automaton, watching only
his holds, till he rammed Ida's rear with his head.
  
