In the street, even before he'd wiped off the foam, he regretted
his flight. The fire was back home. And here in the cold of this
fog-shrouded canyon, a mere trail between heaped-up walls of rubble,
the diaper he wore felt inadequate against the pre-dawn cold. His
cherished weapon, a magnetic tack-hammer, was chill beneath the
diaper's top, and the broken, radium-dialed wristwatch suspended from
a string around his neck hung clammy against his chest. He stood
irresolute on numbing bare feet, and considered returning to the more
familiar bedlam.
  
 
  But colder than cold was his shame at being cold. Molly never was,
though she knew how to keep him warm, nor were the others. Hunger,
thirst, pain and coldness were sensations never experienced by his
friends. Like the growth he'd been undergoing till recently, these were
things of ignominy, to be hidden as far as possible from inquiring
eyes. Cold as it was, he'd have to hide.
  
 
  Temporarily, the darkness concealed him, though it was not quite
complete. From above the fog, the moon played vaguely deceptive light
on the splinters of architecture looming toward it. Some distance off,
an owl hooted, but here nocturnal rodents felt free to squeak and
rustle as they scampered.
  
 
  The world seemed ghostly. Yet it wasn't dead; it merely lurked. And as
an irrepressible yawn reminded Roddie of his absurd need for sleep even
in the midst of danger, he concluded for the thousandth time that the
One who'd built him must have been an apprentice.
  
 
  For just such reasons he'd developed the hideout toward which he now
walked. It had been the haven of his adolescence, when the discovery of
how much he differed from his friends had been a shock, and the shock
itself a difference to be hidden.
  
 
  His hiding place was a manhole, dead center in the dead street. A
weathered bronze bar, carefully placed in the cover's slotted rim, was
the levering key that opened its door.
  
 
 
   Everything
   
  was wrong tonight! He couldn't even find the bar. Of
course that spoiled things, because the bar was a roller on which to
move the heavy cover from below, and a support that held it ajar for
ventilation.
  
 
  But the example of his friends had taught him above all else to carry
out every purpose. Molly was a nurse; she had raised him despite all
obstacles. The soldiers were guards; they protected the ruins against
everything larger than a rat. The firefighter had put even
   
   him
   
  out
when he was aflame....
  
 
  Anyhow, the manhole cover had been loosened by his frequent handling.
He lifted it aside by main strength, then flattened himself to the
street, and felt with his feet for the top rung.
  
 
  Halfway down the iron ladder, something made him pause. He looked, but
saw only blackness. He listened, sniffed, found nothing. What could
have entered through the iron cover?
  
 
  He sneered at his own timidity and jumped to the bottom.
  
 
  It was warm! The dry bottom of the hole had the temperature of body
heat, as if a large animal had recently rested there!
  
