 
  Bridge Crossing
  
 
  BY DAVE DRYFOOS
  
 
  Illustrated by HARRISON
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Galaxy Science Fiction May 1951.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  He knew the city was organized for his
   
  individual defense, for it had been that
   
  way since he was born. But who was his enemy?
  
 
 
  In 1849, the mist that sometimes rolled through the Golden Gate was
known as fog. In 2149, it had become far more frequent, and was known
as smog. By 2349, it was fog again.
  
 
  But tonight there was smoke mixed with the fog. Roddie could smell it.
Somewhere in the forested ruins, fire was burning.
  
 
  He wasn't worried. The small blaze that smoldered behind him on the
cracked concrete floor had consumed everything burnable within blocks;
what remained of the gutted concrete office building from which he
peered was fire-proof.
  
 
  But Roddie was himself aflame with anger. As always when Invaders broke
in from the north, he'd been left behind with his nurse, Molly, while
the soldiers went out to fight.
  
 
  And nowadays Molly's presence wasn't the comfort it used to be. He felt
almost ready to jump out of his skin, the way she rocked and knitted in
that grating ruined chair, saying over and over again, "The soldiers
don't
   
   want
   
  little boys. The soldiers don't
   
   want
   
  little boys. The
soldiers don't—"
  
 
  "I'm
   
   not
   
  a little boy!" Roddie suddenly shouted. "I'm full-grown and
I've never even
   
   seen
   
  an Invader. Why won't you let me go and fight?"
  
 
  Fiercely he crossed the bare, gritty floor and shook Molly's shoulder.
She rattled under his jarring hand, and abruptly changed the subject.
  
 
  "A is for Atom, B is for Bomb, C is for Corpse—" she chanted.
  
 
  Roddie reached into her shapeless dress and pinched. Lately that had
helped her over these spells. But this time, though it stopped the
kindergarten song, the treatment only started something worse.
  
 
  "Wuzzums hungry?" Molly cooed, still rocking.
  
 
  Utterly disgusted, Roddie ripped her head off her neck.
  
 
  It was a completely futile gesture. The complicated mind that had
cared for him and taught him speech and the alphabet hadn't made him a
mechanic, and his only tool was a broken-handled screwdriver.
  
