Roddie salvaged and returned Molly's needles. Then he examined the
patient, tearing him apart as a boy dismembers an alarm clock.
  
 
  It was lucky he did. The left arm's pair of hands suddenly writhed off
the floor in an effort to choke him. But because the arm was detached
at the shoulder and therefore blind, he escaped the clutching onslaught
and could goad the reflexing hands into assaulting one another
harmlessly.
  
 
 
  Meanwhile, the other soldiers left, except for one, apparently another
casualty, who stumbled on his way out and fell into the fire. By the
time Roddie had hauled him clear, damage was beyond repair. Roddie
swore, then decided to try combining parts of this casualty with pieces
of the other to make a whole one.
  
 
  To get more light for the operation, he poked up the fire. Roddie was
new at his work, and took it seriously. It alarmed him to watch the
soldiers melt away, gradually succumbing to battle damage, shamed
him to see the empty ruins burn section by section as the Invaders
repeatedly broke through and had to be burned out.
  
 
  Soon there would be nothing left of the
   
   Private Property Keep Out
   
  that, according to Molly's bedtime story, the Owners had entrusted to
them when driven away by radioactivity. Soon the soldiers themselves
would be gone. None would remain to guard the city but a few strayed
servants like Molly, and an occasional Civil Defender.
  
 
  And himself, Roddie reflected, spitting savagely into the fire. He
might remain. But how he fitted into the picture, he didn't know. And
Molly, who claimed to have found him in the ruins after a fight with
Invaders twenty years before, couldn't or wouldn't say.
  
 
  Well, for as long as possible, Roddie decided, he'd do his duty as
the others did theirs—single-mindedly. Eventually the soldiers might
accept him as one of themselves; meanwhile, this newly attempted first
aid was useful to them.
  
 
  He gave the fire a final poke and then paused, wondering if, when
heated, his screwdriver could make an unfastened end of wire stick on
the grayish spot where it seemed to belong.
  
 
  Stretching prone to blow the embers hot so he could try out his new
idea, Roddie got too close to the flames. Instantly the room filled
with the stench of singed hair. Roddie drew angrily back, beating out
the sparks in his uncut blond mane.
  
 
  As he stood slapping his head and muttering, a deranged Civil Defense
firefighter popped into the doorway and covered him with carbon dioxide
foam.
  
 
  Roddie fled. His life-long friends were not merely wearing out, they
were unbearably wearing.
  
