Roddie awoke as Ida finished struggling free of his unconscious grip.
Limping, he joined her painful walk around the tower. From its openings
they looked out on a strange and isolated world.
  
 
  To the north, where Ida seemed drawn as though by instinct, Mount
Tamalpais reared its brushy head, a looming island above a billowy
white sea of fog. To the south were the Twin Peaks, a pair of buttons
on a cotton sheet. Eastward lay Mount Diablo, bald and brooding,
tallest of the peaks and most forbidding.
  
 
  But westward over the ocean lay the land of gold—of all the kinds of
gold there are, from brightest yellow to deepest orange. Only a small
portion of the setting sun glared above the fog-bank; the rest seemed
to have been broken off and smeared around by a child in love with its
color.
  
 
  Fascinated, Roddie stared for minutes, but turned when Ida showed no
interest. She was intent on the tower itself. Following her eyes,
Roddie saw his duty made suddenly clear.
  
 
  Easy to make out even in the fading light was the route by which
Invaders could cross to the foot of this tower on the remaining ruins
of the road, climb to where he now stood, and then descend the cable
over the bridge's gap and catch the city unaware. Easy to estimate was
the advantage of even this perilous route over things that scattered on
the water and prevented a landing in strength. Easy to see was the need
to kill Ida before she carried home this knowledge.
  
 
  Roddie took the hammer from his waist.
  
 
  "Don't! Oh, don't!" Ida screamed. She burst into tears and covered her
face with scratched and bloodied hands.
  
 
  Surprised, Roddie withheld the blow. He had wept, as a child, and,
weeping, had for the first time learned he differed from his friends.
Ida's tears disturbed him, bringing unhappy memories.
  
 
  "Why should you cry?" he asked comfortingly. "You know your people will
come back to avenge you and will destroy my friends."
  
 
  "But—but my people are your people, too," Ida wailed. "It's so
senseless, now, after all our struggle to escape. Don't you see? Your
friends are only machines, built by our ancestors. We are Men—and the
city is ours, not theirs!"
  
 
  "It
   
   can't
   
  be," Roddie objected. "The city surely belongs to those
who are superior, and my friends are superior to your people, even to
me. Each of
   
   us
   
  has a purpose, though, while you Invaders seem to be
aimless. Each of
   
   us
   
  helps preserve the city; you only try to rob and
end it by destroying it.
   
   My
   
  people must be the true Men, because
they're so much more rational than yours.... And it isn't rational to
let you escape."
  
 
  Ida had turned up her tear-streaked face to stare at him.
  
 
  "Rational! What's rational about murdering a defenseless girl in
cold blood? Don't you realize we're the same sort of being, we two?
Don't—don't you remember how we've been with each other all day?"
  
 
  She paused. Roddie noticed that her eyes were dark and frightened, yet
somehow soft, over scarlet cheeks. He had to look away. But he said
nothing.
  
 
  "Never mind!" Ida said viciously. "You can't make me beg. Go ahead and
kill—see if it proves you're superior. My people will take over the
city regardless of you and me, and regardless of your jumping-jack
friends, too! Men can accomplish anything!"
  
