When they started down the street, she was nervous despite Roddie's
assertion that he knew where the soldiers were posted. He wondered if
she felt some of the doubt he'd tried to conceal, shared his visions of
what the soldiers might do if they found him brazenly strolling with an
Invader. They might not believe he was only questioning a prisoner.
  
 
  Every day, his friends were becoming more unpredictable.
  
 
  For that very reason, because he didn't know what precautions would do
any good, he took a chance and walked openly to the bridge by the most
direct route. In time this apparent assurance stilled Ida's fears, and
she began to talk.
  
 
  Many of the things she said were beyond his experience and meaningless
to him, but he did note with interest how effective the soldiers had
been.
  
 
  "It's awful," Ida said. "So few young men are left, so many
casualties....
  
 
  "But why do you—we—keep up the fight?" Roddie asked. "I mean, the
soldiers will never leave the city; their purpose is to guard it and
they
   
   can't
   
  leave, so they won't attack. Let them alone, and there'll
be plenty of young men."
  
 
  "Well!" said Ida, sharply. "You need indoctrination! Didn't they ever
tell you that the city is our home, even if the stupid androids do keep
us out? Don't you know how dependent we are on these raids for all our
tools and things?"
  
 
  She sounded suspicious. Roddie shot her a furtive, startled glance.
But she wasn't standing off to fight him. On the contrary, she was too
close for both comfort and combat. She bumped him hip and shoulder
every few steps, and if he edged away, she followed.
  
 
  He went on with his questioning. "Why are
   
   you
   
  here? I mean, sure, the
others are after tools and things, but what's
   
   your
   
  purpose?"
  
 
  Ida shrugged. "I'll admit no girl has ever done it before," she said,
"but I thought I could help with the wounded. That's why I have no
weapon."
  
 
  She hesitated, glanced covertly up at him, and went on with a rush of
words. "It's the lack of men, I guess. All the girls are kind of bored
and hopeless, so I got this bright idea and stowed away on one of the
boats when it was dark and the fog had settled down. Do you think I was
being silly?"
  
 
  "No, but you do seem a little purposeless."
  
 
  In silence they trudged through a vast area of charred wood and
concrete foundations on the northern end of the city. Thick fog over
the water hid Alcatraz, but in-shore visibility was better, and they
could see the beginning of the bridge approach.
  
 
  A stone rattled nearby. There was a clink of metal. Ida gasped, and
clung to Roddie's arm.
  
 
  "Behind me!" he whispered urgently. "Get behind me and hold on!"
  
 
  He felt Ida's arms encircling his waist, her chin digging into his back
below the left shoulder. Facing them, a hundred feet away, stood a
soldier. He looked contemptuous, hostile.
  
 
 
  "It's all right," Roddie said, his voice breaking.
  
 
  There was a long, sullen, heart-stopping stare. Then the soldier turned
and walked away.
  
 
  Ida's grip loosened, and he could feel her sag behind him. Roddie
turned and held her. With eyes closed, she pressed cold blue lips to
his. He grimaced and turned away his head.
  
 
  Ida's response was quick. "Forgive me," she breathed, and slipped from
his arms, but she held herself erect. "I was so scared. And then we've
had no sleep, no food or water."
  
 
  Roddie was familiar with these signs of weakness, proud of appearing to
deny his own humiliating needs.
  
 
  "I guess you're not as strong as me," he said smugly. "I'll take care
of you. Of course we can't sleep now, but I'll get food and water."
  
 
  Leaving her to follow, he turned left to the ruins of a supermarket he
had previously visited, demonstrating his superior strength by setting
a pace Ida couldn't match. By the time she caught up with him, he had
grubbed out a few cans of the special size that Molly always chose.
Picking two that were neither dented, swollen, nor rusted, he smashed
an end of each with his hammer, and gave Ida her choice of strained
spinach or squash.
  
 
  "Baby food!" she muttered. "Maybe it's just what we need, but to eat
baby food with a man wearing a diaper.... Tell me, Roddie, how did you
happen to know where to find it?"
  
 
  "Well, this is the northern end of the city," he answered, shrugging.
"I've been here before."
  
 
  "Why did the soldier let us go?"
  
 
  "This watch," he said, touching the radium dial. "It's a talisman."
  
 
  But Ida's eyes had widened, and the color was gone from her face. She
was silent, too, except when asking him to fill his fast-emptied can
with rain-water. She didn't finish her own portion, but lay back in the
rubble with feet higher than her head, obviously trying to renew her
strength.
  
 
  And when they resumed their walk, her sullen, fear-clouded face showed
plainly that he'd given himself away.
  
 
  But to kill her now, before learning how she planned to cross the
supposedly impassable bridge, seemed as purposeless and impulsive as
Ida herself. Roddie didn't think, in any case, that her death would
satisfy the soldiers. With new and useful information to offer, he
might join them as an equal at last. But if his dalliance with this
enemy seemed pointless, not even Molly's knitting needles could protect
him.
  
 
  He was sure the soldiers must be tracking the mysterious emanations of
his watch dial, and had trouble to keep from glancing over his shoulder
at every step. But arrival at the bridge approach ended the need for
this self-restraint. Here, difficult going demanded full attention.
  
