I’d been interested in the Brightside for almost as long as
I can remember (Claney said). I guess I was about ten when
Wyatt and Carpenter made the last attempt—that was in 2082,
I think. I followed the news stories like a tri-V serial and then
I was heartbroken when they just disappeared.
  
 
  I know now that they were a pair of idiots, starting off without
proper equipment, with practically no knowledge of surface
conditions, without any charts—they couldn’t have made
a hundred miles—but I didn’t know that then and it was a
terrible tragedy. After that, I followed Sanderson’s work in the
Twilight Lab up there and began to get Brightside into my
blood, sure as death.
  
 
  But it was Mikuta’s idea to attempt a Crossing. Did you ever
know Tom Mikuta? I don’t suppose you did. No, not Japanese—Polish-American.
He was a major in the Interplanetary Service
for some years and hung onto the title after he gave up
his commission.
  
 
  He was with Armstrong on Mars during his Service days,
did a good deal of the original mapping and surveying for
the Colony there. I first met him on Venus; we spent five
years together up there doing some of the nastiest exploring
since the Matto Grasso. Then he made the attempt on Vulcan
Crater that paved the way for Balmer a few years later.
  
 
  I’d always liked the Major—he was big and quiet and cool,
the sort of guy who always had things figured a little further
ahead than anyone else and always knew what to do in a tight
place. Too many men in this game are all nerve and luck,
with no judgment. The Major had both. He also had the kind
of personality that could take a crew of wild men and
make them work like a well-oiled machine across a thousand
miles of Venus jungle. I liked him and I trusted him.
  
 
  He contacted me in New York and he was very casual at
first. We spent an evening here at the Red Lion, talking about
old times; he told me about the Vulcan business, and how he’d
been out to see Sanderson and the Twilight Lab on Mercury,
and how he preferred a hot trek to a cold one any day of the
year—and then he wanted to know what I’d been doing since
Venus and what my plans were.
  
 
  “No particular plans,” I told him. “Why?”
  
 
  He looked me over. “How much do you weigh, Peter?”
  
 
  I told him one-thirty-five.
  
 
  “That much!” he said. “Well, there can’t be much fat on
you, at any rate. How do you take heat?”
  
 
  “You should know,” I said. “Venus was no icebox.”
  
 
  “No, I mean
   
   real
   
  heat.”
  
 
  Then I began to get it. “You’re planning a trip.”
  
 
  “That’s right. A hot trip.” He grinned at me. “Might be
dangerous, too.”
  
 
  “What trip?”
  
 
  “Brightside of Mercury,” the Major said.
  
 
  I whistled cautiously. “At aphelion?”
  
 
  He threw his head back. “Why try a Crossing at aphelion?
What have you done then? Four thousand miles of butcherous
heat, just to have some joker come along, use your data and
drum you out of the glory by crossing at perihelion forty-four
days later? No, thanks. I want the Brightside without any nonsense
about it.” He leaned across me eagerly. “I want to make
a Crossing at perihelion and I want to cross on the surface. If
a man can do that, he’s got Mercury. Until then,
   
   nobody’s
   
  got
Mercury. I want Mercury—but I’ll need help getting it.”
  
 
  I’d thought of it a thousand times and never dared consider
it. Nobody had, since Wyatt and Carpenter disappeared. Mercury
turns on its axis in the same time that it wheels around
the Sun, which means that the Brightside is always facing in.
That makes the Brightside of Mercury at perihelion the hottest
place in the Solar System, with one single exception: the
surface of the Sun itself.
  
 
  It would be a hellish trek. Only a few men had ever learned
just
   
   how
   
  hellish and they never came back to tell about it. It
was a real hell’s Crossing, but someday, I thought, somebody
would cross it.
  
 
  I wanted to be along.
  
