The Twilight Lab, near the northern pole of Mercury, was the
obvious jumping-off place. The setup there wasn’t very extensive—a
rocket landing, the labs and quarters for Sanderson’s
crew sunk deep into the crust, and the tower that housed
the Solar ’scope that Sanderson had built up there ten years
before.
  
 
  Twilight Lab wasn’t particularly interested in the Brightside,
of course—the Sun was Sanderson’s baby and he’d picked
Mercury as the closest chunk of rock to the Sun that could
hold his observatory. He’d chosen a good location, too. On
Mercury, the Brightside temperature hits 770° F. at perihelion
and the Darkside runs pretty constant at -410° F. No permanent
installation with a human crew could survive at either
extreme. But with Mercury’s wobble, the twilight zone between
Brightside and Darkside offers something closer to survival
temperatures.
  
 
  Sanderson built the Lab up near the pole, where the zone
is about five miles wide, so the temperature only varies 50 to
60 degrees with the libration. The Solar ’scope could take that
much change and they’d get good clear observation of the Sun
for about seventy out of the eighty-eight days it takes the planet
to wheel around.
  
 
  The Major was counting on Sanderson knowing something
about Mercury as well as the Sun when we camped at the Lab
to make final preparations.
  
 
  Sanderson did. He thought we’d lost our minds and he said
so, but he gave us all the help he could. He spent a week
briefing Jack Stone, the third member of our party, who had
arrived with the supplies and equipment a few days earlier.
Poor Jack met us at the rocket landing almost bawling, Sanderson
had given him such a gloomy picture of what Brightside
was like.
  
 
  Stone was a youngster—hardly twenty-five, I’d say—but
he’d been with the Major at Vulcan and had begged to join
this trek. I had a funny feeling that Jack really didn’t care for
exploring too much, but he thought Mikuta was God, followed
him around like a puppy.
  
 
  It didn’t matter to me as long as he knew what he was getting
in for. You don’t go asking people in this game why they do it—they’re
liable to get awfully uneasy and none of them can
ever give you an answer that makes sense. Anyway, Stone had
borrowed three men from the Lab, and had the supplies and
equipment all lined up when we got there, ready to check
and test.
  
 
  We dug right in. With plenty of funds—tri-V money and
some government cash the Major had talked his way around—our
equipment was new and good. Mikuta had done the designing
and testing himself, with a big assist from Sanderson.
We had four Bugs, three of them the light pillow-tire models,
with special lead-cooled cut-in engines when the heat set in,
and one heavy-duty tractor model for pulling the sledges.
  
 
  The Major went over them like a kid at the circus. Then he
said, “Have you heard anything from McIvers?”
  
 
  “Who’s he?” Stone wanted to know.
  
 
  “He’ll be joining us. He’s a good man—got quite a name
for climbing, back home.” The Major turned to me. “You’ve
probably heard of him.”
  
 
  I’d heard plenty of stories about Ted McIvers and I wasn’t
too happy to hear that he was joining us. “Kind of a daredevil,
isn’t he?”
  
 
  “Maybe. He’s lucky and skillful. Where do you draw the
line? We’ll need plenty of both.”
  
 
  “Have you ever worked with him?” I asked.
  
 
  “No. Are you worried?”
  
 
  “Not exactly. But Brightside is no place to count on luck.”
  
 
  The Major laughed. “I don’t think we need to worry about
McIvers. We understood each other when I talked up the
trip to him and we’re going to need each other too much to
do any fooling around.” He turned back to the supply list.
“Meanwhile, let’s get this stuff listed and packed. We’ll need
to cut weight sharply and our time is short. Sanderson says
we should leave in three days.”
  
 
  Two days later, McIvers hadn’t arrived. The Major didn’t
say much about it. Stone was getting edgy and so was I. We
spent the second day studying charts of the Brightside, such as
they were. The best available were pretty poor, taken from so
far out that the detail dissolved into blurs on blow-up. They
showed the biggest ranges of peaks and craters and faults, and
that was all. Still, we could use them to plan a broad outline
of our course.
  
 
  “This range here,” the Major said as we crowded around
the board, “is largely inactive, according to Sanderson. But
these to the south and west
   
   could
   
  be active. Seismograph
tracings suggest a lot of activity in that region, getting worse
down toward the equator—not only volcanic, but sub-surface
shifting.”
  
 
  Stone nodded. “Sanderson told me there was probably constant
surface activity.”
  
 
  The Major shrugged. “Well, it’s treacherous, there’s no
doubt of it. But the only way to avoid it is to travel over the
Pole, which would lose us days and offer us no guarantee of
less activity to the west. Now we might avoid some if we could
find a pass through this range and cut sharp east—”
  
 
  It seemed that the more we considered the problem, the
further we got from a solution. We knew there were active
volcanoes on the Brightside—even on the Darkside, though
surface activity there was pretty much slowed down and
localized.
  
 
  But there were problems of atmosphere on Brightside, as
well. There was an atmosphere and a constant atmospheric
flow from Brightside to Darkside. Not much—the lighter gases
had reached escape velocity and disappeared from Brightside
millennia ago—but there was CO
  2
  , and nitrogen, and traces of
other heavier gases. There was also an abundance of sulfur
vapor, as well as carbon disulfide and sulfur dioxide.
  
 
  The atmospheric tide moved toward the Darkside, where it
condensed, carrying enough volcanic ash with it for Sanderson
to estimate the depth and nature of the surface upheavals on
Brightside from his samplings. The trick was to find a passage
that avoided those upheavals as far as possible. But in the final
analysis, we were barely scraping the surface. The only way
we would find out what was happening where was to be there.
  
 
  Finally, on the third day, McIvers blew in on a freight
rocket from Venus. He’d missed the ship that the Major and
I had taken by a few hours, and had conned his way to Venus
in hopes of getting a hop from there. He didn’t seem too upset
about it, as though this were his usual way of doing things and
he couldn’t see why everyone should get so excited.
  
 
  He was a tall, rangy man with long, wavy hair prematurely
gray, and the sort of eyes that looked like a climber’s—half-closed,
sleepy, almost indolent, but capable of abrupt alertness.
And he never stood still; he was always moving, always doing
something with his hands, or talking, or pacing about.
  
 
  Evidently the Major decided not to press the issue of his
arrival. There was still work to do, and an hour later we were
running the final tests on the pressure suits. That evening,
Stone and McIvers were thick as thieves, and everything was
set for an early departure after we got some rest.
  
