On the fifth driving period out, the terrain began to change.
It looked the same, but every now and then it
   
   felt
   
  different.
On two occasions I felt my wheels spin, with a howl of protest
from my engine. Then, quite suddenly, the Bug gave a lurch;
I gunned my motor and nothing happened.
  
 
  I could see the dull gray stuff seeping up around the hubs,
thick and tenacious, splattering around in steaming gobs as
the wheels spun. I knew what had happened the moment the
wheels gave and, a few minutes later, they chained me to the
tractor and dragged me back out of the mire. It looked for
all the world like thick gray mud, but it was a pit of molten
lead, steaming under a soft layer of concealing ash.
  
 
  I picked my way more cautiously then. We were getting into
an area of recent surface activity; the surface was really treacherous.
I caught myself wishing that the Major had okayed
McIvers’ scheme for an advanced scout; more dangerous for
the individual, maybe, but I was driving blind now and I didn’t
like it.
  
 
  One error in judgment could sink us all, but I wasn’t thinking
much about the others. I was worried about
   
   me
   
  , plenty
worried. I kept thinking, better McIvers should go than me.
It wasn’t healthy thinking and I knew it, but I couldn’t get the
thought out of my mind.
  
 
  It was a grueling eight hours and we slept poorly. Back in
the Bug again, we moved still more slowly—edging out on a
broad flat plateau, dodging a network of gaping surface cracks—winding
back and forth in an effort to keep the machines on
solid rock. I couldn’t see far ahead, because of the yellow haze
rising from the cracks, so I was almost on top of it when I saw
a sharp cut ahead where the surface dropped six feet beyond
a deep crack.
  
 
  I let out a shout to halt the others; then I edged my Bug
forward, peering at the cleft. It was deep and wide. I moved
fifty yards to the left, then back to the right.
  
 
  There was only one place that looked like a possible crossing;
a long, narrow ledge of gray stuff that lay down across
a section of the fault like a ramp. Even as I watched it, I could
feel the surface crust under the Bug trembling and saw the
ledge shift over a few feet.
  
