We jumped off from Twilight on a course due southeast
with thirty days to make it to the Center of Brightside. If we
could cross an average of seventy miles a day, we could hit
Center exactly at perihelion, the point of Mercury’s closest
approach to the Sun—which made Center the hottest part of
the planet at the hottest it ever gets.
  
 
  The Sun was already huge and yellow over the horizon
when we started, twice the size it appears on Earth. Every day
that Sun would grow bigger and whiter, and every day the
surface would get hotter. But once we reached Center, the job
was only half done—we would still have to travel another
two thousand miles to the opposite twilight zone. Sanderson
was to meet us on the other side in the Laboratory’s scout ship,
approximately sixty days from the time we jumped off.
  
 
  That was the plan, in outline. It was up to us to cross those
seventy miles a day, no matter how hot it became, no matter
what terrain we had to cross. Detours would be dangerous and
time-consuming. Delays could cost us our lives. We all knew
that.
  
 
  The Major briefed us on details an hour before we left.
“Peter, you’ll take the lead Bug, the small one we stripped
down for you. Stone and I will flank you on either side, giving
you a hundred-yard lead. McIvers, you’ll have the job of
dragging the sledges, so we’ll have to direct your course pretty
closely. Peter’s job is to pick the passage at any given point.
If there’s any doubt of safe passage, we’ll all explore ahead
on foot before we risk the Bugs. Got that?”
  
 
  McIvers and Stone exchanged glances. McIvers said: “Jack
and I were planning to change around. We figured he could
take the sledges. That would give me a little more mobility.”
  
 
  The Major looked up sharply at Stone. “Do you buy that,
Jack?”
  
 
  Stone shrugged. “I don’t mind. Mac wanted—”
  
 
  McIvers made an impatient gesture with his hands. “It
doesn’t matter. I just feel better when I’m on the move. Does
it make any difference?”
  
 
  “I guess it doesn’t,” said the Major. “Then you’ll flank
Peter along with me. Right?”
  
 
  “Sure, sure.” McIvers pulled at his lower lip. “Who’s going
to do the advance scouting?”
  
 
  “It sounds like I am,” I cut in. “We want to keep the lead
Bug light as possible.”
  
 
  Mikuta nodded. “That’s right. Peter’s Bug is stripped down
to the frame and wheels.”
  
 
  McIvers shook his head. “No, I mean the
   
   advance
   
  work.
You need somebody out ahead—four or five miles, at least—to
pick up the big flaws and active surface changes, don’t you?”
He stared at the Major. “I mean, how can we tell what sort of
a hole we may be moving into, unless we have a scout up
ahead?”
  
 
  “That’s what we have the charts for,” the Major said
sharply.
  
 
  “Charts! I’m talking about
   
   detail
   
  work. We don’t need to
worry about the major topography. It’s the little faults you
can’t see on the pictures that can kill us.” He tossed the charts
down excitedly. “Look, let me take a Bug out ahead and work
reconnaissance, keep five, maybe ten miles ahead of the column.
I can stay on good solid ground, of course, but scan the
area closely and radio back to Peter where to avoid the flaws.
Then—”
  
 
  “No dice,” the Major broke in.
  
 
  “But why not? We could save ourselves days!”
  
 
  “I don’t care what we could save. We stay together. When
we get to the Center, I want live men along with me. That
means we stay within easy sight of each other at all times. Any
climber knows that everybody is safer in a party than one man
alone—any time, any place.”
  
 
  McIvers stared at him, his cheeks an angry red. Finally he
gave a sullen nod. “Okay. If you say so.”
  
 
  “Well, I say so and I mean it. I don’t want any fancy stuff.
We’re going to hit Center together, and finish the Crossing together.
Got that?”
  
 
  McIvers nodded. Mikuta then looked at Stone and me and
we nodded, too.
  
 
  “All right,” he said slowly. “Now that we’ve got it straight,
let’s go.”
  
 
  It was hot. If I forget everything else about that trek, I’ll
never forget that huge yellow Sun glaring down, without a
break, hotter and hotter with every mile. We knew that the
first few days would be the easiest and we were rested and
fresh when we started down the long ragged gorge southeast of
the Twilight Lab.
  
 
  I moved out first; back over my shoulder, I could see the
Major and McIvers crawling out behind me, their pillow tires
taking the rugged floor of the gorge smoothly. Behind them,
Stone dragged the sledges.
  
 
  Even at only 30 per cent Earth gravity they were a strain on
the big tractor, until the ski-blades bit into the fluffy volcanic
ash blanketing the valley. We even had a path to follow for
the first twenty miles.
  
 
  I kept my eyes pasted to the big polaroid binocs, picking out
the track the early research teams had made out into the edge
of Brightside. But in a couple of hours we rumbled past Sanderson’s
little outpost observatory and the tracks stopped. We
were in virgin territory and already the Sun was beginning to
bite.
  
 
  We didn’t
   
   feel
   
  the heat so much those first days out. We
   
   saw
   
  it. The refrig units kept our skins at a nice comfortable seventy-five
degrees Fahrenheit inside our suits, but our eyes watched
that glaring Sun and the baked yellow rocks going past, and
some nerve pathways got twisted up, somehow. We poured
sweat as if we were in a superheated furnace.
  
 
  We drove eight hours and slept five. When a sleep period
came due, we pulled the Bugs together into a square, threw up
a light aluminum sun-shield and lay out in the dust and rocks.
The sun-shield cut the temperature down sixty or seventy
degrees, for whatever help that was. And then we ate from the
forward sledge—sucking through tubes—protein, carbohydrates,
bulk gelatin, vitamins.
  
 
  The Major measured water out with an iron hand, because
we’d have drunk ourselves into nephritis in a week otherwise.
We were constantly, unceasingly thirsty. Ask the physiologists
and psychiatrists why—they can give you have a dozen interesting
reasons—but all we knew, or cared about, was that it
happened to be so.
  
 
  We didn’t sleep the first few stops, as a consequence. Our
eyes burned in spite of the filters and we had roaring headaches,
but we couldn’t sleep them off. We sat around looking
at each other. Then McIvers would say how good a beer would
taste, and off we’d go. We’d have murdered our grandmothers
for one ice-cold bottle of beer.
  
 
  After a few driving periods, I began to get my bearings at
the wheel. We were moving down into desolation that made
Earth’s old Death Valley look like a Japanese rose garden.
Huge sun-baked cracks opened up in the floor of the gorge,
with black cliffs jutting up on either side; the air was filled
with a barely visible yellowish mist of sulfur and sulfurous
gases.
  
 
  It was a hot, barren hole, no place for any man to go, but
the challenge was so powerful you could almost feel it. No one
had ever crossed this land before and escaped. Those who had
tried it had been cruelly punished, but the land was still there,
so it had to be crossed. Not the easy way. It had to be crossed
the hardest way possible: overland, through anything the land
could throw up to us, at the most difficult time possible.
  
 
  Yet we knew that even the land might have been conquered
before, except for that Sun. We’d fought absolute cold before
and won. We’d never fought heat like this and won. The only
worse heat in the Solar System was the surface of the Sun
itself.
  
 
  Brightside was worth trying for. We would get it or it would
get us. That was the bargain.
  
 
  I learned a lot about Mercury those first few driving periods.
The gorge petered out after a hundred miles and we moved
onto the slope of a range of ragged craters that ran south and
east. This range had shown no activity since the first landing
on Mercury forty years before, but beyond it there were active
cones. Yellow fumes rose from the craters constantly; their
sides were shrouded with heavy ash.
  
 
  We couldn’t detect a wind, but we knew there was a hot,
sulfurous breeze sweeping in great continental tides across the
face of the planet. Not enough for erosion, though. The craters
rose up out of jagged gorges, huge towering spears of rock and
rubble. Below were the vast yellow flatlands, smoking and hissing
from the gases beneath the crust. Over everything was gray
dust—silicates and salts, pumice and limestone and granite
ash, filling crevices and declivities—offering a soft, treacherous
surface for the Bug’s pillow tires.
  
 
  I learned to read the ground, to tell a covered fault by the
sag of the dust; I learned to spot a passable crack, and tell it
from an impassable cut. Time after time the Bugs ground to
a halt while we explored a passage on foot, tied together with
light copper cable, digging, advancing, digging some more
until we were sure the surface would carry the machines. It
was cruel work; we slept in exhaustion. But it went smoothly,
at first.
  
 
  Too smoothly, it seemed to me, and the others seemed to
think so, too.
  
 
  McIvers’ restlessness was beginning to grate on our nerves.
He talked too much, while we were resting or while we were
driving; wisecracks, witticisms, unfunny jokes that wore thin
with repetition. He took to making side trips from the route
now and then, never far, but a little further each time.
  
 
  Jack Stone reacted quite the opposite; he grew quieter with
each stop, more reserved and apprehensive. I didn’t like it, but
I figured that it would pass off after a while. I was apprehensive
enough myself; I just managed to hide it better.
  
 
  And every mile the Sun got bigger and whiter and higher in
the sky and hotter. Without our ultra-violet screens and glare
filters we would have been blinded; as it was our eyes ached
constantly and the skin on our faces itched and tingled at the
end of an eight-hour trek.
  
 
  But it took one of those side trips of McIvers’ to deliver the
penultimate blow to our already fraying nerves. He had driven
down a side-branch of a long canyon running off west of our
route and was almost out of sight in a cloud of ash when we
heard a sharp cry through our earphones.
  
 
  I wheeled my Bug around with my heart in my throat and
spotted him through the binocs, waving frantically from the
top of his machine. The Major and I took off, lumbering down
the gulch after him as fast as the Bugs could go, with a thousand
horrible pictures racing through our minds....
  
 
  We found him standing stock-still, pointing down the gorge
and, for once, he didn’t have anything to say. It was the wreck
of a Bug; an old-fashioned half-track model of the sort that
hadn’t been in use for years. It was wedged tight in a cut in
the rock, an axle broken, its casing split wide open up the
middle, half-buried in a rock slide. A dozen feet away were
two insulated suits with white bones gleaming through the
fiberglass helmets.
  
 
  This was as far as Wyatt and Carpenter had gotten on
   
   their
   
  Brightside Crossing.
  
