“And that,” said Baron, finishing his drink and signaling
the waiter for another pair, “was your first big mistake.”
  
 
  Peter Claney raised his eyebrows. “McIvers?”
  
 
  “Of course.”
  
 
  Claney shrugged, glanced at the small quiet tables around
them. “There are lots of bizarre personalities around a place
like this, and some of the best wouldn’t seem to be the most
reliable at first glance. Anyway, personality problems weren’t
our big problem right then.
   
   Equipment
   
  worried us first and
   
   route
   
  next.”
  
 
  Baron nodded in agreement. “What kind of suits did you
have?”
  
 
  “The best insulating suits ever made,” said Claney. “Each
one had an inner lining of a fiberglass modification, to avoid
the clumsiness of asbestos, and carried the refrigerating unit
and oxygen storage which we recharged from the sledges every
eight hours. Outer layer carried a monomolecular chrome reflecting
surface that made us glitter like Christmas trees. And
we had a half-inch dead-air space under positive pressure between
the two layers. Warning thermocouples, of course—at
770 degrees, it wouldn’t take much time to fry us to cinders
if the suits failed somewhere.”
  
 
  “How about the Bugs?”
  
 
  “They were insulated, too, but we weren’t counting on
them too much for protection.”
  
 
  “You weren’t!” Baron exclaimed. “Why not?”
  
 
  “We’d be in and out of them too much. They gave us mobility
and storage, but we knew we’d have to do a lot of
forward work on foot.” Claney smiled bitterly. “Which meant
that we had an inch of fiberglass and a half-inch of dead air
between us and a surface temperature where lead flowed like
water and zinc was almost at melting point and the pools of
sulfur in the shadows were boiling like oatmeal over a campfire.”
  
 
  Baron licked his lips. His fingers stroked the cool, wet glass
as he set it down on the tablecloth.
  
 
  “Go on,” he said tautly. “You started on schedule?”
  
 
  “Oh, yes,” said Claney, “we started on schedule, all right.
We just didn’t quite end on schedule, that was all. But I’m
getting to that.”
  
 
  He settled back in his chair and continued.
  
