 
  Brightside
   
  Crossing
  
 by Alan E. Nourse
  
  JAMES BARON was not pleased to hear that he had had
a visitor when he reached the Red Lion that evening. He
had no stomach for mysteries, vast or trifling, and there
were pressing things to think about at this time. Yet the doorman
had flagged him as he came in from the street: “A thousand
pardons, Mr. Baron. The gentleman—he would leave no
name. He said you’d want to see him. He will be back by
eight.”
  
 
  Now Baron drummed his fingers on the table top, staring
about the quiet lounge. Street trade was discouraged at the
Red Lion, gently but persuasively; the patrons were few in
number. Across to the right was a group that Baron knew
vaguely—Andean climbers, or at least two of them were. Over
near the door he recognized old Balmer, who had mapped
the first passage to the core of Vulcan Crater on Venus. Baron
returned his smile with a nod. Then he settled back and
waited impatiently for the intruder who demanded his time
without justifying it.
  
 
  Presently a small, grizzled man crossed the room and sat
down at Baron’s table. He was short and wiry. His face held
no key to his age—he might have been thirty or a thousand—but
he looked weary and immensely ugly. His cheeks and
forehead were twisted and brown, with scars that were still
healing.
  
 
  The stranger said, “I’m glad you waited. I’ve heard you’re
planning to attempt the Brightside.”
  
 
  Baron stared at the man for a moment. “I see you can read
telecasts,” he said coldly. “The news was correct. We are going
to make a Brightside Crossing.”
  
 
  “At perihelion?”
  
 
  “Of course. When else?”
  
 
  The grizzled man searched Baron’s face for a moment
without expression. Then he said slowly, “No, I’m afraid you’re
not going to make the Crossing.”
  
 
  “Say, who are you, if you don’t mind?” Baron demanded.
  
 
  “The name is Claney,” said the stranger.
  
 
  There was a silence. Then: “Claney?
   
   Peter
   
  Claney?”
  
 
  “That’s right.”
  
 
  Baron’s eyes were wide with excitement, all trace of anger
gone. “Great balls of fire, man—
   
   where have you been hiding?
   
  We’ve been trying to contact you for months!”
  
 
  “I know. I was hoping you’d quit looking and chuck the
whole idea.”
  
 
  “Quit looking!” Baron bent forward over the table. “My
friend, we’d given up hope, but we’ve never quit looking.
Here, have a drink. There’s so much you can tell us.” His
fingers were trembling.
  
 
  Peter Claney shook his head. “I can’t tell you anything you
want to hear.”
  
 
  “But you’ve
   
   got
   
  to. You’re the only man on Earth who’s
attempted a Brightside Crossing and lived through it! And the
story you cleared for the news—it was nothing. We need
   
   details
   
  . Where did your equipment fall down? Where did you
miscalculate? What were the trouble spots?” Baron jabbed a
finger at Claney’s face. “That, for instance—epithelioma?
Why? What was wrong with your glass? Your filters? We’ve
got to know those things. If you can tell us, we can make
it across where your attempt failed—”
  
 
  “You want to know why we failed?” asked Claney.
  
 
  “Of course we want to know. We
   
   have
   
  to know.”
  
 
  “It’s simple. We failed because it can’t be done. We couldn’t
do it and neither can you. No human beings will ever cross
the Brightside alive, not if they try for centuries.”
  
 
  “Nonsense,” Baron declared. “We will.”
  
 
  Claney shrugged. “I was there. I know what I’m saying. You
can blame the equipment or the men—there were flaws in
both quarters—but we just didn’t know what we were fighting.
It was the
   
   planet
   
  that whipped us, that and the
   
   Sun
   
  . They’ll
whip you, too, if you try it.”
  
 
  “Never,” said Baron.
  
 
  “Let me tell you,” Peter Claney said.
  
