Jeff submitted to Snader's pressure and stepped cautiously into the
screen. Amazingly, he felt no resistance at all, no sense of change or
motion. It was like stepping through a fog-bank into another room.
  
 
  In fact, that was what they seemed to have done. They were in the
chair-lined corridor. As Snader turned them around and seated them,
they faced another moving picture screen. It seemed to rush through a
dark tunnel toward a lighted square in the far distance.
  
 
  The square grew on the screen. Soon they saw it was another room like
the waiting room they had left, except that the number hanging from the
ceiling was 702. They seemed to glide through it. Then they were in the
dark tunnel again.
  
 
  Ann was clutching Jeff's arm. He patted her hand. "Fun, hey? Like Alice
through the looking-glass."
  
 
  "You really think we're going back in time?" she whispered.
  
 
  "Hardly! But we're seeing a million-dollar trick. I can't even begin to
figure it out yet."
  
 
  Another lighted room grew out of the tunnel on the screen, and when
they had flickered through it, another and then another.
  
 
  "Mr. Snader," Ann said unsteadily, "how long—how many years back are
you taking us?"
  
 
  Snader was humming to himself. "Six years. Station 725 fine place to
stop."
  
 
  For a little while, Jeff let himself think it might be true. "Six years
ago, your dad was alive," he mused to Ann. "If this should somehow be
real, we could see him again."
  
 
  "We could if we went to our house. He lived with us then, remember?
Would we see ourselves, six years younger? Or would—"
  
 
  Snader took Jeff's arm and pulled him to his feet. The screen was
moving through a room numbered 724.
  
 
  "Soon now," Snader grunted happily. "Then no more questions."
  
 
  He took an arm of each as he had before. When the screen was filled by
a room with the number 725, he propelled them forward into it.
  
 
 
 
  Again there was no sense of motion. They had simply stepped through a
bright wall they could not feel. They found themselves in a replica of
the room they had left at 701. On the wall, a picture of the continuous
club-car corridor rolled toward them in a silent, endless stream.
  
 
  "The same room," Ann said in disappointment. "They just changed the
number. We haven't been anywhere."
  
