Jeff sighed and glanced around the crowded little restaurant. He wished
he could fly away somewhere. At that moment, he met the gaze of the
mustachioed man at the next table.
  
 
  The fellow seemed to be watching him and Ann. Something in his
confident gaze made Jeff uneasy. Had they met before?
  
 
  Ann whispered, "So you noticed him, too. Maybe he's following us. I
think I saw him on the parking lot where we left the car."
  
 
  Jeff shrugged his big shoulders. "If he's following us, he's nuts.
We've got no secrets and no money."
  
 
  "It must be my maddening beauty," said Ann.
  
 
  "I'll kick him cross-eyed if he starts anything," Jeff said. "I'm just
in the mood."
  
 
  Ann giggled. "Honey, what big veins you have! Forget him. Let's talk
about the engineering lab you're going to start. And let's eat."
  
 
  He groaned. "I lose my appetite every time I think about the building
being sold. It isn't worth the twelve grand. I wouldn't buy it for that
if I could. What burns me is that, five years ago, I could have bought
it for two thousand."
  
 
  "If only we could go back five years." She shrugged fatalistically.
"But since we can't—"
  
 
  The character at the next table leaned over and spoke to them,
grinning. "You like to get away? You wish to go back?"
  
 
  Jeff glanced across in annoyance. The man was evidently a salesman,
with extra gall.
  
 
  "Not now, thanks," Jeff said. "Haven't time."
  
 
  The man waved his thick hand at the clock, as if to abolish time.
"Time? That is nothing. Your little lady. She spoke of go back five
years. Maybe I help you."
  
 
  He spoke in an odd clipped way, obviously a foreigner. His shirt was
yellow. His suit had a silky sheen. Its peculiar tailoring emphasized
the bulges in his stubby, muscular torso.
  
 
  Ann smiled back at him. "You talk as if you could take us back to 1952.
Is that what you really mean?"
  
 
  "Why not? You think this silly. But I can show you."
  
 
  Jeff rose to go. "Mister, you better get to a doctor. Ann, it's time we
started home."
  
