Snader was fishing under his shirt for the key. He gave Ann a glance
that was almost a leer. Then he carefully unlocked the door.
  
 
  In the hall, a motherly old lady bustled up, but Snader brushed past
her. "Official," he said, showing her the key. "No lodging."
  
 
  He unlocked the front door without another word and carefully shut it
behind them as Jeff and Ann followed him out of the house.
  
 
  "Hey, where's my car?" Jeff demanded, looking up and down the street.
  
 
  The whole street looked different. Where he had parked his roadster,
there was now a long black limousine.
  
 
  "Your car is in future," Snader said briskly. "Where it belong. Get
in." He opened the door of the limousine.
  
 
  Jeff felt a little flame of excitement licking inside him. Something
was happening, he felt. Something exciting and dangerous.
  
 
  "Snader," he said, "if you're kidnaping us, you made a mistake. Nobody
on Earth will pay ransom for us."
  
 
  Snader seemed amused. "You are foolish fellow. Silly talk about ransom.
You in different time now."
  
 
  "When does this gag stop?" Jeff demanded irritably. "You haven't fooled
us. We're still in 1957."
  
 
  "You are? Look around."
  
 
  Jeff looked at the street again. He secretly admitted to himself
that these were different trees and houses than he remembered. Even
the telephone poles and street lights seemed peculiar, vaguely
foreign-looking. It must be an elaborate practical joke. Snader had
probably ushered them into one house, then through a tunnel and out
another house.
  
 
  "Get in," Snader said curtly.
  
 
  Jeff decided to go along with the hoax or whatever it was. He could
see no serious risk. He helped Ann into the back seat and sat beside
her. Snader slammed the door and slid into the driver's seat. He
started the engine with a roar and they rocketed away from the curb,
narrowly missing another car.
  
 
  Jeff yelled, "Easy, man! Look where you're going!"
  
 
  Snader guffawed. "Tonight, you look where you are going."
  
 
  Ann clung to Jeff. "Did you notice the house we came out of?"
  
 
  "What about it?"
  
 
  "It looked as though they were afraid people might try to break in.
There were bars at the windows."
  
 
  "Lots of houses are built that way, honey. Let's see, where are we?" He
glanced at house numbers. "This is the 800 block. Remember that. And
the street—" He peered up at a sign as they whirled around a corner.
"The street is Green Thru-Way. I never heard of a street like that."
  
 
 
  III
  
 
  They were headed back toward what should have been the boulevard. The
car zoomed through a cloverleaf turn and up onto a broad freeway. Jeff
knew for certain there was no freeway there in 1957—nor in any earlier
year. But on the horizon, he could see the familiar dark bulk of the
mountains. The whole line of moonlit ridges was the same as always.
  
 
  "Ann," he said slowly, "I think this is for real. Somehow I guess we
escaped from 1957. We've been transported in time."
  
 
  She squeezed his arm. "If I'm dreaming, don't wake me! I was scared a
minute ago. But now, oh, boy!"
  
 
  "Likewise. But I still wonder what Snader's angle is." He leaned
forward and tapped the driver on his meaty shoulder. "You brought us
into the future instead of the past, didn't you?"
  
 
  It was hard to know whether Snader was sleepy or just bored, but he
shrugged briefly to show there was no reply coming. Then he yawned.
  
 
  Jeff smiled tightly. "I guess we'll find out in good time. Let's sit
back and enjoy the strangest ride of our lives."
  
 
  As the limousine swept along through the traffic, there were plenty
of big signs for turn-offs, but none gave any hint where they were.
The names were unfamiliar. Even the language seemed grotesque. "Rite
Channel for Creepers," he read. "Yaw for Torrey Rushway" flared at him
from a fork in the freeway.
  
 
  "This can't be the future," Ann said. "This limousine is almost new,
but it doesn't even have an automatic gear shift—"
  
 
  She broke off as the car shot down a ramp off the freeway and pulled up
in front of an apartment house. Just beyond was a big shopping center,
ablaze with lights and swarming with shoppers. Jeff did not recognize
it, in spite of his familiarity with the city.
  
 
  Snader bounded out, pulled open the rear door and jerked his head in a
commanding gesture. But Jeff did not get out. He told Snader, "Let's
have some answers before we go any further."
  
 
  Snader gave him a hard grin. "You hear everything upstairs."
  
 
  The building appeared harmless enough. Jeff looked thoughtfully at Ann.
  
 
  She said, "It's just an apartment house. We've come this far. Might as
well go in and see what's there."
  
 
  Snader led them in, up to the sixth floor in an elevator and along a
corridor with heavy carpets and soft gold lights. He knocked on a door.
  
