A tall, silver-haired, important-looking man opened it and greeted them
heartily.
  
 
  "Solid man, Greet!" he exclaimed. "You're a real scratcher! And is this
our sharp?" He gave Jeff a friendly but appraising look.
  
 
  "Just what you order," Snader said proudly. "His name—Jeff Elliott.
Fine sharp. Best in his circuit. He brings his lifemate, too. Ann
Elliott."
  
 
  The old man rubbed his smooth hands together. "Prime! I wish joy," he
said to Ann and Jeff. "I'm Septo Kersey. Come in. Bullen's waiting."
  
 
  He led them into a spacious drawing room with great windows looking out
on the lights of the city. There was a leather chair in a corner, and
in it sat a heavy man with a grim mouth. He made no move, but grunted
a perfunctory "Wish joy" when Kersey introduced them. His cold eyes
studied Jeff while Kersey seated them in big chairs.
  
 
  Snader did not sit down, however. "No need for me now," he said, and
moved toward the door with a mocking wave at Ann.
  
 
  Bullen nodded. "You get the rest of your pay when Elliott proves out."
  
 
  "Here, wait a minute!" Jeff called. But Snader was gone.
  
 
  "Sit still," Bullen growled to Jeff. "You understand radioptics?"
  
 
  The blood went to Jeff's head. "My business is television, if that's
what you mean. What's this about?"
  
 
  "Tell him, Kersey," the big man said, and stared out the window.
  
 
  Kersey began, "You understand, I think, that you have come back in
time. About six years back."
  
 
  "That's a matter of opinion, but go on."
  
 
  "I am general manager of Continental Radioptic Combine, owned by Mr.
Dumont Bullen." He nodded toward the big man. "Chromatics have not
yet been developed here in connection with radioptics. They are well
understood in your time, are they not?"
  
 
  "What's chromatics? Color television?"
  
 
  "Exactly. You are an expert in—ah—colored television, I think."
  
 
  Jeff nodded. "So what?"
  
 
  The old man beamed at him. "You are here to work for our company. You
will enable us to be first with chromatics in this time wave."
  
 
  Jeff stood up. "Don't tell me who I'll work for."
  
