Instead of answering, Snader pointed to the screen. The picture showed
a group of people chatting in a fast-moving corridor. As it hurtled
toward them, Snader flipped his hand in a genial salute. Two people in
the picture waved back.
  
 
  Ann gasped. "It was just as if they saw us."
  
 
  "They did," Snader said. "No movie. Time travelers. In fourth
dimension. To you, they look like flat picture. To them, we look flat."
  
 
  "What's he supposed to be?" Jeff asked as the onrushing picture showed
them briefly a figure bound hand and foot, huddled in one of the
chairs. He stared at them piteously for an instant before the picture
surged past.
  
 
  Snader showed his teeth. "That was convict from my time. We have
criminals, like in your time. But we do not kill. We make them work.
Where he going? To end of line. To earliest year this time groove
reach. About 600 A.D., your calendar. Authorities pick up when
he get there. Put him to work."
  
 
  "What kind of work?" Jeff asked.
  
 
  "Building the groove further back."
  
 
  "Sounds like interesting work."
  
 
  Snader chortled and slapped him on the back. "Maybe you see it some
day, but forget that now. You come with me. Little trip."
  
 
  Jeff was perspiring. This was odder than he expected. Whatever the
fakery, it was clever. His curiosity as a technician made him want to
know about it. He asked Snader, "Where do you propose to go? And how?"
  
 
  Snader said, "Watch me. Then look at other wall."
  
 
  He moved gracefully to the screen on the left wall, stepped into it and
disappeared. It was as if he had slid into opaque water.
  
 
  Jeff and Ann blinked in mystification. Then they remembered his
instruction to watch the other screen. They turned. After a moment, in
the far distance down the long moving corridor, they could see a stocky
figure. The motion of the picture brought him nearer. In a few seconds,
he was recognizable as Snader—and as the picture brought him forward,
he stepped down out of it and was with them again.
  
 
  "Simple," Snader said. "I rode to next station. Then crossed over. Took
other carrier back here."
  
 
  "Brother, that's the best trick I've seen in years," Jeff said. "How
did you do it? Can I do it, too?"
  
 
  "I show you." Grinning like a wildcat, Snader linked his arms with Ann
and Jeff, and walked them toward the screen. "Now," he said. "Step in."
  
