Her hand was cold in his and her face was white. To take her mind off
their problem, he ambled toward the lighted shop windows.
  
 
  "Look at that sign," he said, pointing to a poster over a display of
neckties. "'Sleek neck-sashes, only a Dick and a dollop!' How do they
expect to sell stuff with that crazy lingo?"
  
 
  "It's jive talk. They must cater to the high-school crowd." Ann
glanced nervously at the strolling people around them. "Jeff, where
are we? This isn't any part of the city I've ever seen. It doesn't
even look much like America." Her voice rose. "The way the women are
dressed—it's not old-fashioned, just different."
  
 
  "Baby, don't be scared. This is an adventure. Let's have fun." He
pressed her hand soothingly and pulled her toward a lunch counter.
  
 
  If the haberdasher's sign was jive, the restaurant spoke the same
jargon. The signs on the wall and the bill of fare were baffling. Jeff
pondered the list of beef shingles, scorchers, smack sticks and fruit
chills, until he noticed that a couple at the counter were eating what
clearly were hamburgers—though the "buns" looked more like tortillas.
  
 
  Jeff jerked his thumb at them and told the waitress, "Two, please."
  
 
  When the sandwiches arrived, they were ordinary enough. He and Ann ate
in silence. A feeling of foreboding hung over them.
  
 
  When they finished, the clerk gave him a check marked 1/20. Jeff looked
at it thoughtfully, shrugged and handed it to the cashier with two
dollar bills.
  
 
  The man at the desk glanced at them and laughed. "Stage money, eh?"
  
 
  "No, that's good money," Jeff assured him with a rather hollow smile.
"They're just new bills, that's all."
  
 
  The cashier picked one up and looked at it curiously. "I'm afraid it's
no good here," he said, and pushed it back.
  
 
  The bottom dropped out of Jeff's stomach. "What kind of money do you
want? This is all I have."
  
 
  The cashier's smile faded. He caught the eye of a man in uniform on one
of the stools. The uniform was dark green, but the man acted like a
policeman. He loomed up beside Jeff.
  
 
  "What's the rasper?" he demanded. Other customers, waiting to pay their
checks, eyed Jeff curiously.
  
 
  "I guess I'm in trouble," Jeff told him. "I'm a stranger here and I got
something to eat under the impression that my money was legal tender.
Do you know where I can exchange it?"
  
