On the way around, Stevenson said, "I believe you reported the car
stolen almost immediately after it happened."
  
 
  "That's right," said Hastings. "I stepped into a bar on my route. I'm
a wine and liquor salesman. When I came out five minutes later, my car
was gone."
  
 
  "You left the keys in it?"
  
 
  "Well, why not?" demanded Hastings belligerently. "If I'm making just
a quick stop—I never spend more than five minutes with any one
customer—I always leave the keys in the car. Why not?"
  
 
  "The car was stolen," Stevenson reminded him.
  
 
  Hastings grumbled and glared. "It's always been perfectly safe up till
now."
  
 
  "Yes, sir. In here."
  
 
  Hastings took one look at his car and hit the ceiling. "It's ruined!"
he cried. "What did you do to the tires?"
  
 
  "Not a thing, sir. That happened to them in the holdup."
  
 
  Hastings leaned down over one of the front tires. "Look at that!
There's melted rubber all over the rims. Those rims are ruined! What
did you use, incendiary bullets?"
  
 
  Stevenson shook his head. "No, sir. When that happened they were two
blocks away from the nearest policeman."
  
 
  "Hmph." Hastings moved on around the car, stopping short to exclaim,
"What in the name of God is that? You didn't tell me a bunch of
   
   kids
   
  had stolen the car."
  
 
  "It wasn't a bunch of kids," Stevenson told him. "It was four
professional criminals, I thought you knew that. They were using it in
a bank holdup."
  
 
  "Then why did they do
   
   that
   
  ?"
  
 
  Stevenson followed Hastings' pointing finger, and saw again the
crudely-lettered words, "The Scorpion" burned black into the paint of
the trunk lid. "I really don't know," he said. "It wasn't there before
the car was stolen?"
  
 
  "Of course not!"
  
 
  Stevenson frowned. "Now, why in the world did they do that?"
  
 
  "I suggest," said Hastings with heavy sarcasm, "you ask them that."
  
 
  Stevenson shook his head. "It wouldn't do any good. They aren't talking
about anything. I don't suppose they'll ever tell us." He looked at the
trunk lid again. "It's the nuttiest thing," he said thoughtfully....
  
 
  That was on Wednesday.
  
 
  The Friday afternoon mail delivery to the
   
   Daily News
   
  brought a crank
letter. It was in the crank letter's most obvious form; that is,
the address had been clipped, a letter or a word at a time, from a
newspaper and glued to the envelope. There was no return address.
  
 
  The letter itself was in the same format. It was brief and to the point:
  
 
  Dear Mr. Editor:
  
 
  The Scorpion has struck. The bank robbers were captured. The Scorpion
fights crime. Crooks and robbers are not safe from the avenging
Scorpion. WARN YOUR READERS!
  
 
  Sincerely yours,
   
  THE SCORPION
  
 
  The warning was duly noted, and the letter filed in the wastebasket. It
didn't rate a line in the paper.
  
 
 
  II
  
 
  The bank robbery occurred in late June. Early in August, a Brooklyn man
went berserk.
  
 
  It happened in Canarsie, a section in southeast Brooklyn near Jamaica
Bay. This particular area of Canarsie was a residential neighborhood,
composed of one and two family houses. The man who went berserk was a
Motor Vehicle Bureau clerk named Jerome Higgins.
  
 
  Two days before, he had flunked a Civil Service examination for the
third time. He reported himself sick and spent the two days at home,
brooding, a bottle of blended whiskey at all times in his hand.
  
 
  As the police reconstructed it later, Mrs. Higgins had attempted to
awaken him on the third morning at seven-thirty, suggesting that he
really ought to stop being so foolish, and go back to work. He then
allegedly poked her in the eye, and locked her out of the bedroom.
  
 
  Mrs. Higgins then apparently called her sister-in-law, a Mrs. Thelma
Stodbetter, who was Mr. Higgins' sister. Mrs. Stodbetter arrived at the
house at nine o'clock, and spent some time tapping at the still-locked
bedroom door, apparently requesting Mr. Higgins to unlock the door and
"stop acting like a child." Neighbors reported to the police that they
heard Mr. Higgins shout a number of times, "Go away! Can't you let a
man sleep?"
  
 
  At about ten-fifteen, neighbors heard shots from the Higgins residence,
a two-story one-family pink stucco affair in the middle of a block of
similar homes. Mr. Higgins, it was learned later, had suddenly erupted
from his bedroom, brandishing a .30-.30 hunting rifle and, being
annoyed at the shrieks of his wife and sister, had fired seven shells
at them, killing his wife on the spot and wounding his sister in the
hand and shoulder.
  
 
  Mrs. Stodbetter, wounded and scared out of her wits, raced screaming
out the front door of the house, crying for the police and shouting,
"Murder! Murder!" At this point, neighbors called the police. One
neighbor additionally phoned three newspapers and two television
stations, thereby earning forty dollars in "news-tips" rewards.
  
