Captain Hanks was still in his realistic cycle this morning, and he was
impatient as well. "All right, Stevenson," he said. "Make it fast, I've
got a lot to do this morning. And I hope it isn't this comic-book thing
of yours again."
  
 
  "I'm afraid it is, Captain," said Stevenson. "Did you see the morning
paper?"
  
 
  "So what?"
  
 
  "Did you see that thing about the gang fight up in Manhattan?"
  
 
  Captain Hanks sighed. "Stevenson," he said wearily, "are you going to
try to connect every single time the word 'scorpion' comes up? What's
the problem with this one? These kid gangs have names, so what?"
  
 
  "Neither one of them was called 'The Scorpions,'" Stevenson told
him. "One of them was the Scarlet Raiders and the other gang was the
Challengers."
  
 
  "So they changed their name," said Hanks.
  
 
  "Both gangs? Simultaneously? To the same name?"
  
 
  "Why not? Maybe that's what they were fighting over."
  
 
  "It was a territorial war," Stevenson reminded him. "They've admitted
that much. It says so in the paper. And it also says they all deny ever
seeing that word on their jackets until after the fight."
  
 
  "A bunch of juvenile delinquents," said Hanks in disgust. "You take
their word?"
  
 
  "Captain, did you read the article in the paper?"
  
 
  "I glanced through it."
  
 
  "All right. Here's what they say happened: They say they started
fighting at eleven o'clock. And they just got going when all at once
all the metal they were carrying—knives and tire chains and coins and
belt buckles and everything else—got freezing cold, too cold to touch.
And then their leather jackets got freezing cold, so cold they had to
pull them off and throw them away. And when the jackets were later
collected, across the name of the gang on the back of each one had been
branded 'The Scorpion.'"
  
 
  "Now, let
   
   me
   
  tell
   
   you
   
  something," said Hanks severely. "They heard
the police sirens, and they threw all their weapons away. Then they
threw their jackets away, to try to make believe they hadn't been
part of the gang that had been fighting. But they were caught before
they could get out of the schoolyard. If the squad cars had showed
up a minute later, the schoolyard wouldn't have had anything in it
but weapons and jackets, and the kids would have been all over the
neighborhood, nice as you please, minding their own business and not
bothering anybody.
   
   That's
   
  what happened. And all this talk about
freezing cold and branding names into jackets is just some smart-alec
punk's idea of a way to razz the police. Now, you just go back to
worrying about what's happening in this precinct and forget about kid
gangs up in Manhattan and comic book things like the Scorpion, or
you're going to wind up like Wilcox, with that refrigerator business.
Now, I don't want to hear any more about this nonsense, Stevenson."
  
 
  "Yes, sir," said Stevenson.
  
