You don't get to be Precinct Captain on nothing but political
connections. Those help, of course, but you need more than that. As
Captain Hanks was fond of pointing out, you needed as well to be both
more imaginative than most—"You gotta be able to second-guess the
smart boys"—and to be a complete realist—"You gotta have both feet
on the ground." If these were somewhat contradictory qualities, it was
best not to mention the fact to Captain Hanks.
  
 
  The realist side of the captain's nature was currently at the fore.
"Just what are you trying to say, Stevenson?" he demanded.
  
 
  "I'm not sure," admitted Stevenson. "But we've got these two things.
First, there's the getaway car from that bank job. The wheels melt for
no reason at all, and somebody burns 'The Scorpion' onto the trunk.
Then, yesterday, this guy Higgins out in Canarsie. He says the rifle
all of a sudden got too hot to hold, and he's got the burn marks to
prove it. And there on the rifle stock it is again. 'The Scorpion'."
  
 
  "He says he put that on there himself," said the captain.
  
 
  Stevenson shook his head. "His
   
   lawyer
   
  says he put it on there.
Higgins says he doesn't remember doing it. That's half the lawyer's
case. He's trying to build up an insanity defense."
  
 
  "He put it on there himself, Stevenson," said the captain with weary
patience. "What are you trying to prove?"
  
 
  "I don't know. All I know is it's the nuttiest thing I ever saw. And
what about the getaway car? What about those tires melting?"
  
 
  "They were defective," said Hanks promptly.
  
 
  "All four of them at once? And what about the thing written on the
trunk?"
  
 
  "How do I know?" demanded the captain. "Kids put it on before the car
was stolen, maybe. Or maybe the hoods did it themselves, who knows?
What do
   
   they
   
  say?"
  
 
  "They say they didn't do it," said Stevenson. "And they say they never
saw it before the robbery and they would have noticed it if it'd been
there."
  
 
  The captain shook his head. "I don't get it," he admitted. "What are
you trying to prove?"
  
 
  "I guess," said Stevenson slowly, thinking it out as he went along, "I
guess I'm trying to prove that somebody melted those tires, and made
that rifle too hot, and left his signature behind."
  
 
  "What? You mean like in the comic books? Come on, Stevenson! What are
you trying to hand me?"
  
 
  "All I know," insisted Stevenson, "is what I see."
  
 
  "And all
   
   I
   
  know," the captain told him, "is Higgins put that name on
his rifle himself. He says so."
  
 
  "And what made it so hot?"
  
 
  "Hell, man, he'd been firing that thing at people for an hour! What do
you
   
   think
   
  made it hot?"
  
 
  "All of a sudden?"
  
 
  "He noticed it all of a sudden, when it started to burn him."
  
 
  "How come the same name showed up each time, then?" Stevenson asked
desperately.
  
 
  "How should I know? And why not, anyway? You know as well as I do these
things happen. A bunch of teen-agers burgle a liquor store and they
write 'The Golden Avengers' on the plate glass in lipstick. It happens
all the time. Why not 'The Scorpion'? It couldn't occur to two people?"
  
 
  "But there's no explanation—" started Stevenson.
  
 
  "What do you mean, there's no explanation? I just
   
   gave
   
  you the
explanation. Look, Stevenson, I'm a busy man. You got a nutty
idea—like Wilcox a few years ago, remember him? Got the idea there
was a fiend around loose, stuffing all those kids into abandoned
refrigerators to starve. He went around trying to prove it, and getting
all upset, and pretty soon they had to put him away in the nut hatch.
Remember?"
  
 
  "I remember," said Stevenson.
  
 
  "Forget this silly stuff, Stevenson," the captain advised him.
  
 
  "Yes, sir," said Stevenson....
  
 
  The day after Jerome Higgins went berserk, the afternoon mail brought a
crank letter to the
   
   Daily News
   
  :
  
 
  Dear Mr. Editor,
  
 
  You did not warn your readers. The man who shot all those people could
not escape the Scorpion. The Scorpion fights crime. No criminal is
safe from the Scorpion. WARN YOUR READERS.
  
 
  Sincerely yours,
   
  THE SCORPION
  
 
  Unfortunately, this letter was not read by the same individual who had
seen the first one, two months before. At any rate, it was filed in the
same place, and forgotten.
  
 
 
  III
  
 
  Hallowe'en is a good time for a rumble. There's too many kids around
for the cops to keep track of all of them, and if you're picked up
carrying a knife or a length of tire chain or something, why, you're on
your way to a Hallowe'en party and you're in costume. You're going as a
JD.
  
 
  The problem was this schoolyard. It was a block wide, with entrances
on two streets. The street on the north was Challenger territory, and
the street on the south was Scarlet Raider territory, and both sides
claimed the schoolyard. There had been a few skirmishes, a few guys
from both gangs had been jumped and knocked around a little, but that
had been all. Finally, the War Lords from the two gangs had met, and
determined that the matter could only be settled in a war.
  
 
  The time was chosen: Hallowe'en. The place was chosen: the schoolyard.
The weapons were chosen: pocket knives and tire chains okay, but no
pistols or zip-guns. The time was fixed: eleven P.M. And the winner
would have undisputed territorial rights to the schoolyard, both
entrances.
  
 
  The night of the rumble, the gangs assembled in their separate
clubrooms for last-minute instructions. Debs were sent out to play
chicken at the intersections nearest the schoolyard, both to warn of
the approach of cops and to keep out any non-combatant kids who might
come wandering through.
  
 
  Judy Canzanetti was a Deb with the Scarlet Raiders. She was fifteen
years old, short and black-haired and pretty in a movie-magazine,
gum-chewing sort of way. She was proud of being in the Auxiliary of the
Scarlet Raiders, and proud also of the job that had been assigned to
her. She was to stand chicken on the southwest corner of the street.
  
 
  Judy took up her position at five minutes to eleven. The streets were
dark and quiet. Few people cared to walk this neighborhood after dark,
particularly on Hallowe'en. Judy leaned her back against the telephone
pole on the corner, stuck her hands in the pockets of her Scarlet
Raider jacket and waited.
  
 
  At eleven o'clock, she heard indistinct noises begin behind her. The
rumble had started.
  
 
  At five after eleven, a bunch of little kids came wandering down the
street. They were all about ten or eleven years old, and most of them
carried trick-or-treat shopping bags. Some of them had Hallowe'en masks
on.
  
 
  They started to make the turn toward the schoolyard. Judy said, "Hey,
you kids. Take off."
  
 
  One of them, wearing a red mask, turned to look at her. "Who, us?"
  
 
  "Yes, you! Stay out of that street. Go on down that way."
  
 
  "The subway's this way," objected the kid in the red mask.
  
 
  "Who cares? You go around the other way."
  
