"Listen, lady," said the kid in the red mask, aggrieved, "we got a long
way to go to get home."
  
 
  "Yeah," said another kid, in a black mask, "and we're late as it is."
  
 
  "I couldn't care less," Judy told them callously. "You can't go down
that street."
  
 
  "Why not?" demanded yet another kid. This one was in the most complete
and elaborate costume of them all, black leotards and a yellow shirt
and a flowing: black cape. He wore a black and gold mask and had a
black knit cap jammed down tight onto his head. "Why can't we go down
there?" this apparition demanded.
  
 
  "Because I said so," Judy told him. "Now, you kids get away from here.
Take off."
  
 
  "Hey!" cried the kid in the black-and-yellow costume. "Hey, they're
fighting down there!"
  
 
  "It's a rumble," said Judy proudly. "You twerps don't want to be
involved."
  
 
  "Hey!" cried the kid in the black-and-yellow costume again. And he went
running around Judy and dashing off down the street.
  
 
  "Hey, Eddie!" shouted one of the other kids. "Eddie, come back!"
  
 
  Judy wasn't sure what to do next. If she abandoned her post to chase
the one kid who'd gotten through, then maybe all the rest of them would
come running along after her. She didn't know what to do.
  
 
  A sudden siren and a distant flashing red light solved her problems.
"Cheez," said one of the kids. "The cops!"
  
 
  "Fuzz!" screamed Judy. She turned and raced down the block toward the
schoolyard, shouting, "Fuzz! Fuzz! Clear out, it's the fuzz!"
  
 
  But then she stopped, wide-eyed, when she saw what was going on in the
schoolyard.
  
 
  The guys from both gangs were dancing. They were jumping around, waving
their arms, throwing their weapons away. Then they all started pulling
off their gang jackets and throwing them away, whooping and hollering.
They were making such a racket themselves that they never heard Judy's
warning. They didn't even hear the police sirens. And all at once both
schoolyard entrances were full of cops, a cop had tight hold of Judy
and the rumble was over.
  
 
 
 
  Judy was so baffled and terrified that everything was just one great
big blur. But in the middle of it all, she did see the little kid in
the yellow-and-black costume go scooting away down the street.
  
 
  And she had the craziest idea that it was all his fault.
  
