"It was the nuttiest thing," said Detective-Sergeant Stevenson. "An
operation planned that well, you'd think they'd pay attention to their
getaway car, you know what I mean?"
  
 
  Detective-Sergeant Pauling shrugged. "They always slip up," he said.
"Sooner or later, on some minor detail, they always slip up."
  
 
  "Yes, but their
   
   tires
   
  ."
  
 
  "Well," said Pauling, "it was a stolen car. I suppose they just grabbed
whatever was handiest."
  
 
  "What I can't figure out," said Stevenson, "is exactly what made those
tires do that. I mean, it was a hot day and all, but it wasn't
   
   that
   
  hot. And they weren't going that fast. I don't think you could go fast
enough to melt your tires down."
  
 
  Pauling shrugged again. "We got them. That's the important thing."
  
 
  "Still and all, it's nutty. They're free and clear, barrelling out
Rockaway toward the Belt, and all at once their tires melt, the tubes
blow out and there they are." Stevenson shook his head. "I can't figure
it."
  
 
  "Don't look a gift horse in the mouth," suggested Pauling. "They picked
the wrong car to steal."
  
 
  "And
   
   that
   
  doesn't make sense, either," said Stevenson. "Why steal a
car that could be identified as easily as that one?"
  
 
  "Why? What was it, a foreign make?"
  
 
  "No, it was a Chevvy, two-tone, three years old, looked just like half
the cars on the streets. Except that in the trunk lid the owner had
burned in 'The Scorpion' in big black letters you could see half a
block away."
  
 
  "Maybe they didn't notice it when they stole the car," said Pauling.
  
 
  "For a well-planned operation like this one," said Stevenson, "they
made a couple of really idiotic boners. It doesn't make any sense."
  
 
  "What do they have to say about it?" Pauling demanded.
  
 
  "Nothing, what do you expect? They'll make no statement at all."
  
 
  The squad-room door opened, and a uniformed patrolman stuck his head
in. "The owner of that Chevvy's here," he said.
  
 
  "Right," said Stevenson. He followed the patrolman down the hall to the
front desk.
  
 
  The owner of the Chevvy was an angry-looking man of middle age, tall
and paunchy. "John Hastings," he said. "They say you have my car here."
  
 
  "I believe so, yes," said Stevenson. "I'm afraid it's in pretty bad
shape."
  
 
  "So I was told over the phone," said Hastings grimly. "I've contacted
my insurance company."
  
 
  "Good. The car's in the police garage, around the corner. If you'd come
with me?"
  
