By chance, a mobile television unit was at that moment on the Belt
Parkway, returning from having seen off a prime minister at Idlewild
Airport. This unit was at once diverted to Canarsie, where it took up a
position across the street from the scene of carnage and went to work
with a Zoomar lens.
  
 
  In the meantime, Mister Higgins had barricaded himself in his house,
firing at anything that moved.
  
 
  The two cameramen in the mobile unit worked their hearts out. One
concentrated on the movements of the police and firemen and neighbors
and ambulance attendants, while the other used the Zoomar lens to
search for Mr. Higgins. He found him occasionally, offering the at-home
audience brief glimpses of a stocky balding man in brown trousers and
undershirt, stalking from window to window on the second floor of the
house.
  
 
  The show lasted for nearly an hour. There were policemen everywhere,
and firemen everywhere, and neighbors milling around down at the
corner, where the police had roped the block off, and occasionally Mr.
Higgins would stick his rifle out a window and shoot at somebody. The
police used loudspeakers to tell Higgins he might as well give up, they
had the place surrounded and could eventually starve him out anyway.
Higgins used his own good lungs to shout obscenities back and challenge
anyone present to hand-to-hand combat.
  
 
  The police fired tear gas shells at the house, but it was a windy day
and all the windows in the Higgins house were either open or broken.
Higgins was able to throw all the shells back out of the house again.
  
 
  The show lasted for nearly an hour. Then it ended, suddenly and
dramatically.
  
 
  Higgins had showed himself to the Zoomar lens again, for the purpose of
shooting either the camera or its operator. All at once he yelped and
threw the rifle away. The rifle bounced onto the porch roof, slithered
down to the edge, hung for a second against the drain, and finally fell
barrel first onto the lawn.
  
 
  Meanwhile, Higgins was running through the house, shouting like a
wounded bull. He thundered down the stairs and out, hollering, to fall
into the arms of the waiting police.
  
 
  They had trouble holding him. At first they thought he was actually
trying to get away, but then one of them heard what it was he was
shouting: "My hands! My hands!"
  
 
  They looked at his hands. The palms and the palm-side of the fingers
were red and blistering, from what looked like severe burns. There was
another burn on his right cheek and another one on his right shoulder.
  
 
  Higgins, thoroughly chastened and bewildered, was led away for burn
ointment and jail. The television crew went on back to Manhattan. The
neighbors went home and telephoned their friends.
  
 
  On-duty policemen had been called in from practically all of the
precincts in Brooklyn. Among them was Detective-Sergeant William
Stevenson. Stevenson frowned thoughtfully at Higgins as that unhappy
individual was led away, and then strolled over to look at the rifle.
He touched the stock, and it was somewhat warm but that was all.
  
 
  He picked it up and turned it around. There, on the other side of the
stock, burned into the wood, were the crudely-shaped letters, "The
Scorpion."
  
