The first thing about the derelict that struck us as we drew near was
her size. No ship ever built in the Foundation Yards had ever attained
such gargantuan proportions. She must have stretched a full thousand
feet from bow to stern, a sleek torpedo shape of somehow unspeakable
alienness. Against the backdrop of the Milky Way, she gleamed fitfully
in the light of the faraway sun, the metal of her flanks grained with
something like tiny, glittering whorls. It was as though the stuff
were somehow unstable ... seeking balance ... maybe even alive in some
strange and alien way.
  
 
  It was readily apparent to all of us that she had never been built for
inter-planetary flight. She was a starship. Origin unknown. An aura of
mystery surrounded her like a shroud, protecting the world that gave
her birth mutely but effectively. The distance she must have come was
unthinkable. And the time it had taken...? Aeons. Millennia. For she
was drifting, dead in space, slowly spinning end over end as she swung
about Sol in a hyperbolic orbit that would soon take her out and away
again into the inter-stellar deeps.
  
 
  Something had wounded her ... perhaps ten million years ago ... perhaps
yesterday. She was gashed deeply from stem to stern with a jagged rip
that bared her mangled innards. A wandering asteroid? A meteor? We
would never know. It gave me an uncomfortable feeling of things beyond
the ken of men as I looked at her through the port. I would never know
what killed her, or where she was going, or whence she came. Yet she
was mine. It made me feel like an upstart. And it made me afraid ...
but of what?
  
 
  We should have reported her to the nearest EMV base, but that would
have meant that we'd lose her. Scientists would be sent out. Men better
equipped than we to investigate the first extrasolar artifact found by
men. But I didn't report her. She was ours. She was money in the bank.
Let the scientists take over after we'd put a prize crew aboard and
brought her into Callisto for salvage.... That's the way I had things
figured.
  
 
  The Maid hove to about a hundred yards from her and hung there, dwarfed
by the mighty glistening ship. I called for volunteers and we prepared
a boarding party. I was thinking that her drives alone would be worth
millions. Cohn took charge and he and three of the men suited up and
crossed to her.
  
 
  In an hour they were back, disappointment largely written on their
faces.
  
 
  "There's nothing left of her, Captain," Cohn reported, "Whatever hit
her tore up the innards so badly we couldn't even find the drives.
She's a mess inside. Nothing left but the hull and a few storage
compartments that are still unbroken."
  
 
  She was never built to carry humanoids he told us, and there was
nothing that could give us a hint of where she had come from. The hull
alone was left.
  
 
  He dropped two chunks of metal on my desk. "I brought back some samples
of her pressure hull," he said, "The whole thing is made of this
stuff...."
  
 
  "We'll still take her in," I said, hiding my disappointment. "The
carcass will be worth money in Callisto. Have Mister Marvin and
Zaleski assemble a spare pulse-jet. We'll jury-rig her and bring her
down under her own power. You take charge of provisioning her. Check
those compartments you found and install oxy-generators aboard. When
it's done report to me in my quarters."
  
 
  I picked up the two samples of gleaming metal and called for a
metallurgical testing kit. "I'm going to try and find out if this stuff
is worth anything...."
  
 
  The metal was heavy—too heavy, it seemed to me, for spaceship
construction. But then, who was to say what conditions existed on that
distant world where this metal was made?
  
 
  Under the bright fluorescent over my work-table, the chunks of metal
torn from a random bulkhead of the starship gleamed like pale silver;
those strange little whorls that I had noticed on the outer hull were
there too, like tiny magnetic lines of force, making the surface of
the metal seem to dance. I held the stuff in my bare hand.
   
   It had a
yellowish tinge, and it was heavier
   
  ....
  
 
  Even as I watched, the metal grew yellower, and the hand that held
it grew bone weary, little tongues of fatigue licking up my forearm.
Suddenly terrified, I dropped the chunk as though it were white hot. It
struck the table with a dull thud and lay there, a rich yellow lump of
metallic lustre.
  
 
  For a long while I just sat and stared. Then I began testing, trying
all the while to quiet the trembling of my hands. I weighed it on a
balance. I tested it with acids. It had changed unquestionably. It
was no longer the same as when I had carried it into my quarters. The
whorls of force were gone. It was no longer alive with a questing
vibrancy ... it was inert, stable. From somewhere, somehow, it had
drawn the energy necessary for transmutation. The unknown metal—the
stuff of which that whole mammoth spaceship from the stars was
built—was now....
  
 
 
   Gold!
   
 
 
  I scarcely dared believe it, but there it was staring at me from my
table-top.
   
   Gold!
   
 
 
  I searched my mind for an explanation. Contra-terrene matter, perhaps,
from some distant island universe where matter reacted differently ...
drawing energy from somewhere, the energy it needed to find stability
in its new environment. Stability as a terrene element—wonderfully,
miraculously gold!
  
 
  And outside, in the void beyond the Maid's ports there were tons of
this metal that could be turned into treasure. My laughter must have
been a wild sound in those moments of discovery....
  
