Together, Spinelli and I watched the Maid's crew vanish into the maw
of the alien ship and get her under way. There was a flicker of bluish
fire from her jury-rigged tubes astern, and then she was vanishing in a
great arc toward the bright gleam of Jupiter, far below us. The Maid
followed under a steady one G of acceleration with most of her controls
on automatic.
  
 
  Boats of the Martian Maid's class, you may remember, carried a six
inch supersonic projector abaft the astrogation turret. These were
nasty weapons for use against organic life only. They would reduce a
man to jelly at fifty thousand yards. Let it be said to my credit that
it wasn't I who thought of hooking the gun into the radar finder and
keeping it aimed dead at the derelict. That was Spinelli's insurance
against Zaleski.
  
 
  When I discovered it I felt the rage mount in me. He was willing to
blast every one of his shipmates into pulp should the hulk vary from
the orbit we'd laid out for her. He wasn't letting anything come
between him and that mountain of gold.
  
 
  Then I began thinking about it. Suppose now, just suppose, that Zaleski
told the rest of the crew about the gold. It wouldn't be too hard
for the derelict to break away from the Maid, and there were plenty
of places in the EMV Triangle where a renegade crew with a thousand
tons of gold would be welcomed with open arms and no questions asked.
Suspicion began to eat at me. Could Zaleski and Cohn have dreamed up
a little switch to keep the treasure ship for themselves? It hadn't
seemed likely before, but now—
  
 
  The gun-pointer remained as it was.
  
 
  As the days passed and we reached turn-over with the hulk still well
within visual range, I noticed a definite decrease in the number of
messages from Cohn. The Aldis Lamps no longer blinked back at the Maid
eight or ten times a day, and I began to really regret not having taken
the time to equip the starship with UHF radio communicators.
  
 
  Each night I slept with a hunk of yellow gold under my bunk, and
ridiculously I fondled the stuff and dreamed of all the things I would
have when the starship was cut up and sold.
  
 
  My weariness grew. It became almost chronic, and I soon wondered if
I hadn't picked up a touch of space-radiation fever. The flesh of my
hands seemed paler than it had been. My arms felt heavy. I determined
to report myself to the Foundation medics on Callisto. There's no
telling what can happen to a man in space....
  
 
  Two days past turn-over the messages from the derelict came through
garbled. Spinelli cursed and said that he couldn't read their signal.
Taking the Aldis from him I tried to raise them and failed. Two hours
later I was still failing and Spinelli's black eyes glittered with an
animal suspicion.
  
 
  "They're faking!"
  
 
  "Like hell they are!" I snapped irritably, "Something's gone wrong...."
  
 
  "Zaleski's gone wrong, that's what!"
  
 
  I turned to face him, fury snapping inside of me. "Then you did disobey
my orders. You told him about the gold!"
  
 
  "Sure I did," he sneered. "Did you expect me to shut up and let you
land the ship yourself and claim Captain's share?
   
   I
   
  found her, and
she's mine!"
  
 
  I fought to control my temper and said: "Let's see what's going on in
her before deciding who gets what, Mister Spinelli."
  
 
  Spinelli bit his thick lips and did not reply. His eyes were fixed on
the image of the starship on the viewplate.
  
 
  A light blinked erratically within the dark cut of its wounded side.
  
 
  "Get this down, Spinelli!"
  
 
  The habit of taking orders was still in him, and he muttered: "Aye ...
sir."
  
 
  The light was winking out a message, but feebly, as though the hand
that held the lamp were shaking and the mind conceiving the words were
failing.
  
 
  "CONTROL ... LOST ... CAN'T ... NO ... STRENGTH ... LEFT ... SHIP ...
WALLS ... ALL ... ALL GOLD ... GOLD ... SOMETHING ... HAPPENING ...
CAN'T ... UNDERSTAND ... WHA...." The light stopped flashing, abruptly,
in mid-word.
  
 
  "What the hell?" demanded Spinelli thickly.
  
 
  "Order them to heave to, Mister," I ordered.
  
 
  He clicked the Aldis at them. The only response was a wild swerve in
the star-ship's course. She left the orbit we had set for her as though
the hands that guided her had fallen away from the control.
  
 
  Spinelli dropped the Aldis and rushed to the control panel to make the
corrections in the Maid's course that were needed to keep the hulk in
sight.
  
 
  "Those skunks! Double crossing rats!" he breathed furiously. "They
won't shake loose that easy!" His hands started down for the firing
console of the supersonic rifle.
  
 
  I caught the movement from the corner of my eye.
  
 
  "
   
   Spinelli!
   
  "
  
 
  My shout hung in the still air of the control room as I knocked him
away from the panel.
  
 
  "Get to your quarters!" I cracked.
  
 
  He didn't say a thing, but his big shoulders hunched angrily and
he moved across the deck toward me, his hands opening and closing
spasmodically. His eyes were wild with rage and avarice.
  
 
  "You'll hang for mutiny, Spinelli!" I said.
  
