I didn't realize it was a derelict when Spinelli first reported
it from the forward scope position. I assumed it was a Foundation
ship. The Holcomb Foundation was founded for the purpose of
developing spaceflight, and as the years went by it took on the whole
responsibility for the building and dispatching of space ships. Never
in history had there been any real evidence of extra-terrestrial
intelligent life, and when the EMV Triangle proved barren, we all just
assumed that the Universe was man's own particular oyster. That kind of
unreasoning arrogance is as hard to explain as it is to correct.
  
 
  There were plenty of ships being lost in space, and immediately that
Spinelli's report from up forward got noised about the Maid every one
of us started mentally counting up his share of the salvage money. All
this before we were within ten thousand miles of the hulk!
  
 
  All spaceships look pretty much alike, but as I sat at the telescope
I saw that there was something different about this one. At such a
distance I couldn't get too much detail in our small three inch glass,
but I could see that the hulk was big—bigger than any ship I'd ever
seen before. I had the radar fixed on her and then I retired with my
slide rule to Control. It wasn't long before I discovered that the
derelict ship was on a near collision course, but there was something
about its orbit that was strange. I called Cohn, the Metering Officer,
and showed him my figures.
  
 
  "Mister Cohn," I said, chart in hand, "do these figures look right to
you?"
  
 
  Cohn's dark eyes lit up as they always did when he worked with figures.
It didn't take him long to check me. "The math is quite correct,
Captain," he said. I could see that he hadn't missed the inference of
those figures on the chart.
  
 
  "Assemble the ship's company, Mister Cohn," I ordered.
  
 
  The assembly horn sounded throughout the Maid and I could feel the tug
of the automatics taking over as the crew left their stations. Soon
they were assembled in Control.
  
 
  "You have all heard about Mister Spinelli's find," I said, "I have
computed the orbit and inspected the object through the glass. It seems
to be a spacer ... either abandoned or in distress...." Reaching into
the book rack above my desk I took down a copy of the Foundation's
   
   Space Regulations
   
  and opened it to the section concerning salvage.
  
 
  "Sections XVIII, Paragraph 8 of the Code Regulating Interplanetary
Astrogation and Commerce," I read, "Any vessel or part of vessel found
in an abandoned or totally disabled condition in any region of space
not subject to the sovereignty of any planet of the Earth-Venus-Mars
Triangle shall be considered to be the property of the crew of the
vessel locating said abandoned or disabled vessel except in such cases
as the ownership of said abandoned or disabled vessel may be readily
ascertained...." I looked up and closed the book. "Simply stated, that
means that if that thing ahead of us is a derelict we are entitled to
claim it as salvage."
  
 
  "Unless it already belongs to someone?" asked Spinelli.
  
 
  "That's correct Mister Spinelli, but I don't think there is much danger
of that," I replied quietly. "My figures show that hulk out there came
in from the direction of Coma Berenices...."
  
 
  There was a long silence before Zaleski shifted his two hundred pounds
uneasily and gave a form to the muted fear inside me. "You think ...
you think it came from the
   
   stars
   
  , Captain?"
  
 
  "Maybe even from beyond the stars," Cohn said in a low voice.
  
 
  Looking at that circle of faces I saw the beginnings of greed. The
first impact of the Metering Officer's words wore off quickly and soon
every man of my crew was thinking that anything from the stars would be
worth money ... lots of money.
  
 
  Spinelli said, "Do we look her over, Captain?"
  
 
  They all looked at me, waiting for my answer. I knew it would be worth
plenty, and money hunger was like a fever inside me.
  
 
  "Certainly we look it over, Mister Spinelli," I said sharply.
"Certainly!"
  
