He spat out a foul name and leaped for me. I side-stepped his charge
and brought my joined fists down hard on the back of his neck. He
stumbled against the bulkhead and his eyes were glazed. He charged
again, roaring. I stepped aside and smashed him in the mouth with my
right fist, then crossing with an open-handed left to the throat. He
staggered, spun and came for me again. I sank a hard left into his
stomach and nailed him on the point of the jaw with a right from my
shoe-tops. He straightened up and sprawled heavily to the deck, still
trying to get at me. I aimed a hard kick at his temple and let it go.
My metal shod boot caught him squarely and he rolled over on his face
and lay still.
  
 
 
 
   I nailed him with a right from my shoe-tops.
   
 
 
 
  Breathing heavily, I rolled him back face up. His eyes were open,
glassy with an implacable hate. I knelt at his side and listened for
his breathing. There was none. I knew then that I had killed him. I
felt sick inside, and dizzy.
  
 
  I wasn't myself as I turned away from Spinelli's body there on the
steel deck. Some of the greed died out of me, and my exertions had
increased my sense of fatigue to an almost numbing weariness. My arms
ached terribly and my hands felt as though they had been sucked dry of
their substance. Like a man in a nightmare, I held them up before my
face and looked at them. They were wrinkled and grey, with the veins
standing out a sickly purple. And I could see that my arms were taking
on that same aged look.
  
 
  I was suddenly fully aware of my fear. Nothing fought against the
flood of terror that welled through me. I was terrified of that yellow
gold in my cabin, and of that ship of devil's metal out there in space
that held my shipmates. There was something unnatural about that
contra-terrene thing ... something obscene.
  
 
  I located the hulk in the radar finder and swung the Maid after it,
piling on acceleration until my vision flickered. We caught her, the
Maid and I. But we couldn't stop her short of using the rifle on her,
and I couldn't bring myself to add to my depravity by killing the rest
of my men. It would have been better if I had!
  
 
  I laid the Maid alongside the thousand foot hull of the derelict and
set the controls on automatic. It was dangerous, but I was beyond
caring. Then I was struggling to get myself into a pressure suit with
my wrinkled, failing hands.... Then I was outside, headed for that dark
hole.
  
 
  I sank down into the stillness of her interior, my helmet light casting
long, fey shadows across the littered decks. Decks that had a yellowish
cast ... decks that no longer danced with tiny questing force-whorls....
  
 
  As I approached the airlock of the compartment set aside as living
quarters for the prize crew, the saffron of the walls deepened. Crazy
little thoughts began spinning around in my brain. Words out of the
distant past loomed up with a new and suddenly terrifying
perspective ... alchemy ... transmutation ... energy. I'm a spaceman,
not a scientist. But in those moments I think I was discovering what
had happened to my crew and why the walls were turning into yellow
metal.
  
 
  The lock was closed, but I swung it open and let the pressure in the
chamber rise. I couldn't wait for it to reach fourteen pounds ...
at eleven, I swung the inner door and stumbled eagerly through. The
brilliant light, reflected from gleaming walls blinded me for a moment.
  
 
  And then I saw them! They huddled, almost naked in a corner, skeletal
things with skull-like faces that leered at me with the vacuous
obscenity of old age. Even their voices were raw and cracked with the
rusty decay of years. They babbled stupidly, caressing the walls with
claw-like hands. They were old, old!
  
 
  I understood then. I knew what my wrinkled aged hands meant. That
devil-metal from beyond the stars had drawn the energy it needed
from ...
   
   us
   
  !
  
 
  My laughter was a crazy shriek inside my helmet. I looked wildly at the
gleaming walls that had sucked the youth and strength from these men.
The walls were stable, at rest. They were purest gold ... gold ... gold!
  
 
  I ran from that place still screaming with the horror of it. My hands
burned like fire! Age was in them, creeping like molten lead through my
veins, ghastly and sure....
  
 
  I reached the Maid and threw every scrap of that alien metal into space
as I streaked madly away from that golden terror in the sky and its
load of ancient evil....
  
