A slight sound behind me made me spin around in my chair. Framed in the
doorway was the heavy figure of my Third Officer, Spinelli. His black
eyes were fastened hungrily on the lump of yellow metal on the table.
He needed no explanation to tell him what it was, and it seemed to me
that his very soul reached out for the stuff, so sharp and clear was
the meaning of the expression on his heavy face.
  
 
  "Mister Spinelli!" I snapped, "In the future knock before entering my
quarters!"
  
 
  Reluctantly his eyes left the lump of gold and met mine. "From the
derelict, Captain?" There was an imperceptible pause between the last
two words.
  
 
  I ignored his question and made a mental note to keep a close hand on
the rein with him. Spinelli was big and dangerous.
  
 
  "Speak your piece, Mister," I ordered sharply.
  
 
  "Mister Cohn reports the derelict ready to take aboard the prize
crew ... sir," he said slowly. "I'd like to volunteer for that detail."
  
 
  I might have let him go under ordinary circumstances, for he was a
first class spaceman and the handling of a jury-rigged hulk would
need good men. But the gold-hunger I had seen in his eyes warned me
to beware. I shook my head. "You will stay on board the Maid with me,
Spinelli. Cohn and Zaleski will handle the starship."
  
 
  Stark suspicion leaped into his eyes. I could see the wheels turning
slowly in his mind. Somehow, he was thinking, I was planning to cheat
him of his rightful share of the derelict treasure ship.
  
 
  "We will say nothing to the rest of the crew about the gold, Mister
Spinelli," I said deliberately, "Or you'll go to Callisto in irons. Is
that clear?"
  
 
  "Aye, sir," murmured Spinelli. The black expression had left his face
and there was a faintly scornful smile playing about his mouth as he
turned away. I began wondering then what he had in mind. It wasn't like
him to let it go at that.
  
 
  Suddenly I became conscious of being very tired. My mind wasn't
functioning quite clearly. And my arm and hand ached painfully. I
rubbed the fingers to get some life back into them, still wondering
about Spinelli.
  
 
  Spinelli talked. I saw him murmuring something to big Zaleski, and
after that there was tension in the air. Distrust.
  
 
  For a few moments I pondered the advisability of making good my threat
to clap Spinelli into irons, but I decided against it. In the first
place I couldn't prove he had told Zaleski about the gold and in the
second place I needed Spinelli to help run the Maid.
  
 
  I felt that the Third Officer and Zaleski were planning something, and
I was just as sure that Spinelli was watching Zaleski to see to it that
there was no double-cross.
  
 
  I figured that I could handle the Third Officer alone so I assigned the
rest, Marvin and Chelly, to accompany Cohn and Zaleski onto the hulk.
That way Zaleski would be outnumbered if he tried to skip with the
treasure ship. But, of course, I couldn't risk telling them that they
were to be handling a vessel practically made of gold.
  
 
  I was in agony. I didn't want to let anyone get out of my sight with
that starship, and at the same time I couldn't leave the Maid. Finally
I had to let Cohn take command of the prize crew, but not before I had
set the radar finder on the Maid's prow squarely on the derelict.
  
