  CAPTAIN MIDAS
  
 
  By ALFRED COPPEL, JR.
  
 
  The captain of the Martian Maid stared avidly at
   
  the torn derelict floating against the velvet void.
   
  Here was treasure beyond his wildest dreams! How
   
  could he know his dreams should have been nightmares?
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Planet Stories Fall 1949.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  Gold! A magic word, even today, isn't it? Lust and gold ... they go
hand in hand. Like the horsemen of the Apocalypse. And, of course,
there's another word needed to make up the trilogy. You don't get
any thing for nothing. So add this: Cost. Or you might call it pain,
sorrow, agony. Call it what you like. It's what you pay for great
treasure....
  
 
  These things were true when fabled Jason sailed the Argo beyond Colchis
seeking the Fleece. They were true when men sailed the southern oceans
in wooden ships. And the conquest of space hasn't changed us a bit.
We're still a greedy lot....
  
 
  I'm a queer one to be saying these things, but then, who has more
right? Look at me. My hair is gray and my face ... my face is a mask.
The flesh hangs on my bones like a yellow cloth on a rickety frame. I
am old, old. And I wait here on my hospital cot—wait for the weight of
years I never lived to drag me under and let me forget the awful things
my eyes have seen.
  
 
  I'm poor, too, or else I wouldn't be here in this place of dying for
old spacemen. I haven't a dime except for the pittance the Holcomb
Foundation calls a spaceman's pension. Yet I had millions in my hands.
Treasure beyond your wildest dreams! Cursed treasure....
  
 
  You smile. You are thinking that I'm just an old man, beached
earthside, spinning tall tales to impress the youngsters. Maybe,
thinking about the kind of spacemen my generation produced, you have
the idea that if ever we'd so much as laid a hand on anything of value
out in space we'd not let go until Hell froze over! Well, you're
right about that. We didn't seek the spaceways for the advancement of
civilization or any of that Foundation bushwah, you can be certain of
that. We did it for
   
   us
   
  ... for Number One. That's the kind of men we
were, and we were proud of it. We hung onto what we found because the
risks were high and we were entitled to keep what we could out there.
But there are strange things in the sky. Things that don't respond to
all of our neat little Laws and Theories. There are things that are no
part of the world of men, thick with danger—and horror.
  
