If you doubt that—and I can see you do—just look at me. I suppose
you've never heard of the Martian Maid, and so you don't know the story
of what happened to her crew or her skipper. I can give you this much
of an answer.
   
   I
   
  was her skipper. And her crew? They ride high in the
sky ... dust by this time. And all because they were men, and men are
greedy and hasty and full of an unreasoning, unthinking love for gold.
They ride a golden ship that they paid for with all the years of their
lives. It's all theirs now. Bought and paid for.
  
 
  It wasn't too long ago that I lifted the Maid off Solis Lacus on
that last flight. Not many of you will remember her class of ship,
so many advances have been made in the last few years. The Maid was
two hundred feet from tip to tail, and as sleek a spacer as ever came
out of the Foundation Yards. Chemical fueled, she was nothing at all
like the spherical hyperdrives we see today. She was armed, too. The
Foundation still thought of space as a possible stamping ground for
alien creatures though no evidence of any extra-terrestrial life had
ever been found ... then.
  
 
  My crew was a rough bunch, like all those early crews. I remember them
so well. Lean, hungry men with hell in their eyes and a great lust for
high pay and hard living. Spinelli, Shelley, Cohn, Marvin, Zaleski.
There wasn't a man on board who wouldn't have traded his immortal soul
for a few solar dollars, and I don't claim that I was any different.
That's the kind of men that opened up the spaceways, too. Don't believe
all this talk about the noble pioneering spirit of man. That's tripe.
There never has been such a thing as a noble pioneer. Not in space or
anywhere else. It is the malcontent and the adventuring mercenary that
pushes the frontier outward.
  
 
  I didn't know, that night as I stood in the valve of the Maid, watching
the loading cranes pull away, that I was starting out on my last
flight. I don't think any of the others could have guessed, either.
It was the sort of night that you only see on Mars. The sort of night
that makes a spaceman wonder why in hell he wants to leave the relative
security of the Earth-Mars-Venus Triangle to go jetting across the belt
into deep space and the drab desolation of the outer System.
  
 
  I stood there, watching the lights of Canalopolis in the distance. For
just a moment I was ... well, touched. It looked beautiful and unreal
under the racing moons. The lights of the gin mills and houses made a
sparkling filigree pattern on the dark waters of the ancient canal, and
the moons cast their shifting shadows across the silted banks. I was
too far away to see the space-fevered bums and smell the shanties, and
for a little while I felt the wonder of standing on the soil of a world
that man had made his own with his rapacity and his sheer guts and
gimme.
  
 
  I thought of our half empty cargo hold and the sweet payload we would
pick up on Callisto. And I counted the extra cash my packets of snow
would bring from those lonely men up there on the barren moonlets of
the outer Systems. There were plenty of cargoes carried on the Maid
that the Holcomb Foundation snoopers never heard about, you can be sure
of that.
  
 
  In those days the asteroid belt was
   
   the
   
  primary danger and menace to
astrogation. For a long while it held men back from deep space, but as
fuels improved a few ships were sent out over the top. A few million
miles up out of the ecliptic plane brings you to a region of space
that's pretty thinly strewn with asteroids, and that's the way we used
to make the flight between the outer systems and the EMV Triangle. It
took a long while for hyperdrives to be developed and of course atomics
never panned out because of the weight problem.
  
 
  So that's the orbit the Maid took on that last trip of mine. High
and clear into the supra-solar void. And out there in that primeval
blackness is where we found the derelict.
  
