In a gloomy mood, Orison McCall showered and dressed for bed. Eleven
o'clock. Washington should be calling soon, inquiring after the results
of her first day's spying.
  
 
  No call. Orison slipped between the sheets at eleven-thirty. The clock
was set; the lights were out. Wasn't Washington going to call her?
Perhaps, she thought, the Department had discovered that the Earmuffs
had her phone tapped.
  
 
  "Testing," a baritone voice muttered.
  
 
  Orison sat up, clutching the sheet around her throat. "Beg pardon?" she
said.
  
 
  "Testing," the male voice repeated. "One, two, three; three, two, one.
Do you read me? Over."
  
 
  Orison reached under the bed for a shoe. Gripping it like a Scout-ax,
she reached for the light cord with her free hand and tugged at it.
  
 
  The room was empty.
  
 
  "Testing," the voice repeated.
  
 
  "What you're testing," Orison said in a firm voice, "is my patience.
Who are you?"
  
 
  "Department of Treasury Monitor J-12," the male voice said. "Do you
have anything to report, Miss McCall?"
  
 
  "Where are you, Monitor?" she demanded.
  
 
  "That's classified information," the voice said. "Please speak directly
to your pillow, Miss McCall."
  
 
  Orison lay down cautiously. "All right," she whispered to her pillow.
  
 
  "Over here," the voice instructed her, coming from the unruffled pillow
beside her.
  
 
  Orison transferred her head to the pillow to her left. "A radio?" she
asked.
  
 
  "Of a sort," Monitor J-12 agreed. "We have to maintain communications
security. Have you anything to report?"
  
 
  "I got the job," Orison said. "Are you ... in that pillow ... all the
time?"
  
 
  "No, Miss McCall," the voice said. "Only at report times. Shall we
establish our rendezvous here at eleven-fifteen, Central Standard Time,
every day?"
  
 
  "You make it sound so improper," Orison said.
  
 
  "I'm far enough away to do you no harm, Miss McCall," the monitor said.
"Now, tell me what happened at the bank today."
  
 
  Orison briefed her pillow on the Earmuffs, on her task of reading to a
microphone, and on the generally mimsy tone of the William Howard Taft
National Bank and Trust Company. "That's about it, so far," she said.
  
 
  "Good report," J-12 said from the pillow. "Sounds like you've dropped
into a real snakepit, beautiful."
  
 
  "How do you know ... why do you think I'm beautiful?" Orison asked.
  
 
  "Native optimism," the voice said. "Good night." J-12 signed off with
a peculiar electronic pop that puzzled Orison for a moment. Then she
placed the sound: J-12 had kissed his microphone.
  
 
  Orison flung the shoe and the pillow under her bed, and resolved
to write Washington for permission to make her future reports by
registered mail.
  
 
 
  II
  
 
  At ten o'clock the next morning, reading page four of the current
   
   Wall Street Journal
   
  , Orison was interrupted by the click of a pair
of leather heels. The gentleman whose heels had just slammed together
was bowing. And she saw with some gratification that he was not
wearing earmuffs. "My name," the stranger said, "is Dink Gerding. I am
President of this bank, and wish at this time to welcome you to our
little family."
  
 
  "I'm Orison McCall," she said. A handsome man, she mused. Twenty-eight?
So tall. Could he ever be interested in a girl just five-foot-three?
Maybe higher heels?
  
 
  "We're pleased with your work, Miss McCall," Dink Gerding said. He took
the chair to the right of her desk.
  
 
  "It's nothing," Orison said, switching off the microphone.
  
 
  "On the contrary, Miss McCall. Your duties are most important," he said.
  
 
  "Reading papers and fairy-tales into this microphone is nothing any
reasonably astute sixth-grader couldn't do as well," Orison said.
  
 
  "You'll be reading silently before long," Mr. Gerding said. He smiled,
as though this explained everything. "By the way, your official
designation is Confidential Secretary. It's me whose confidences you're
to keep secret. If I ever need a letter written, may I stop down here
and dictate it?"
  
 
  "Please do," Orison said. This bank president, for all his grace and
presence, was obviously as kookie as his bank.
  
 
  "Have you ever worked in a bank before, Miss McCall?" Mr. Gerding
asked, as though following her train of thought.
  
 
  "No, sir," she said. "Though I've been associated with a rather large
financial organization."
  
 
  "You may find some of our methods a little strange, but you'll get used
to them," he said. "Meanwhile, I'd be most grateful if you'd dispense
with calling me 'sir.' My name is Dink. It is ridiculous, but I'd enjoy
your using it."
  
 
  "Dink?" she asked. "And I suppose you're to call me Orison?"
  
 
  "That's the drill," he said. "One more question, Orison. Dinner this
evening?"
  
 
  Direct, she thought. Perhaps that's why he's president of a bank, and
still so young. "We've hardly met," she said.
  
 
  "But we're on a first-name basis already," he pointed out. "Dance?"
  
 
  "I'd love to," Orison said, half expecting an orchestra to march,
playing, from the elevator.
  
 
  "Then I'll pick you up at seven. Windsor Arms, if I remember your
personnel form correctly." He stood, lean, all bone and muscle,
and bowed slightly. West Point? Hardly. His manners were European.
Sandhurst, perhaps, or Saint Cyr. Was she supposed to reply with a
curtsy? Orison wondered.
  
 
  "Thank you," she said.
  
 
  He was a soldier, or had been: the way, when he turned, his shoulders
stayed square. The crisp clicking of his steps, a military metronome,
to the elevator. When the door slicked open Orison, staring after Dink,
saw that each of the half-dozen men aboard snapped off their hats (but
not their earmuffs) and bowed, the earmuffed operator bowing with them.
Small bows, true; just head-and-neck. But not to her. To Dink Gerding.
  
