 
  CINDERELLA STORY
  
 
  By ALLEN KIM LANG
  
 
 
   What a bank! The First Vice-President
    
   was a cool cat—the elevator and the
    
   money operators all wore earmuffs—was
    
   just as phony as a three-dollar bill!
   
 
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Worlds of If Science Fiction, May 1961.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  I
  
 
  The First Vice-President of the William Howard Taft National Bank and
Trust Company, the gentleman to whom Miss Orison McCall was applying
for a job, was not at all the public picture of a banker. His suit of
hound's-tooth checks, the scarlet vest peeping above the vee of his
jacket, were enough to assure Orison that the Taft Bank was a curious
bank indeed. "I gotta say, chick, these references of yours really
swing," said the Vice-President, Mr. Wanji. "Your last boss says you
come on real cool in the secretary-bit."
  
 
  "He was a very kind employer," Orison said. She tried to keep from
staring at the most remarkable item of Mr. Wanji's costume, a pair of
furry green earmuffs. It was not cold.
  
 
  Mr. Wanji returned to Orison her letters of reference. "What color
bread you got eyes for taking down, baby?" he asked.
  
 
  "Beg pardon?"
  
 
  "What kinda salary you bucking for?" he translated, bouncing up and
down on the toes of his rough-leather desert boots.
  
 
  "I was making one-twenty a week in my last position," Miss McCall said.
  
 
  "You're worth more'n that, just to jazz up the decor," Mr. Wanji said.
"What you say we pass you a cee-and-a-half a week. Okay?" He caught
Orison's look of bewilderment. "One each, a Franklin and a Grant," he
explained further. She still looked blank. "Sister, you gonna work
in a bank, you gotta know who's picture's on the paper. That's a
hunnerd-fifty a week, doll."
  
 
  "That will be most satisfactory, Mr. Wanji," Orison said. It was indeed.
  
 
  "Crazy!" Mr. Wanji grabbed Orison's right hand and shook it with
athletic vigor. "You just now joined up with our herd. I wanna tell
you, chick, it's none too soon we got some decent scenery around
this tomb, girlwise." He took her arm and led her toward the bank of
elevators. The uniformed operator nodded to Mr. Wanji, bowed slightly
to Orison. He, too, she observed, wore earmuffs. His were more formal
than Mr. Wanji's, being midnight blue in color. "Lift us to five, Mac,"
Mr. Wanji said. As the elevator door shut he explained to Orison,
"You can make the Taft Bank scene anywhere between the street floor
and floor five. Basement and everything higher'n fifth floor is Iron
Curtain Country far's you're concerned. Dig, baby?"
  
 
  "Yes, sir," Orison said. She was wondering if she'd be issued earmuffs,
now that she'd become an employee of this most peculiar bank.
  
 
  The elevator opened on five to a tiny office, just large enough to
hold a single desk and two chairs. On the desk were a telephone and
a microphone. Beside them was a double-decked "In" and "Out" basket.
"Here's where you'll do your nine-to-five, honey," Mr. Wanji said.
  
 
  "What will I be doing, Mr. Wanji?" Orison asked.
  
 
  The Vice-President pointed to the newspaper folded in the "In" basket.
"Flip on the microphone and read the paper to it," he said. "When you
get done reading the paper, someone will run you up something new to
read. Okay?"
  
 
  "It seems a rather peculiar job," Orison said. "After all, I'm a
secretary. Is reading the newspaper aloud supposed to familiarize me
with the Bank's operation?"
  
 
  "Don't bug me, kid," Mr. Wanji said. "All you gotta do is read that
there paper into this here microphone. Can do?"
  
 
  "Yes, sir," Orison said. "While you're here, Mr. Wanji, I'd like to
ask you about my withholding tax, social security, credit union,
coffee-breaks, union membership, lunch hour and the like. Shall we take
care of these details now? Or would you—"
  
 
  "You just take care of that chicken-flickin' kinda stuff any way seems
best to you, kid," Mr. Wanji said.
  
 
  "Yes, sir," Orison said. This laissez-faire policy of Taft Bank's
might explain why she'd been selected from the Treasury Department's
secretarial pool to apply for work here, she thought. Orison McCall,
girl Government spy. She picked up the newspaper from the "In" basket,
unfolded it to discover the day's
   
   Wall Street Journal
   
  , and began at
the top of column one to read it aloud. Wanji stood before the desk,
nodding his head as he listened. "You blowing real good, kid," he said.
"The boss is gonna dig you the most."
  
 
  Orison nodded. Holding her newspaper and her microphone, she read the
one into the other. Mr. Wanji flicked his fingers in a good-by, then
took off upstairs in the elevator.
  
