Suddenly she was dropped. Her mountainous keepers were on the floor as
though struck by lightning, their arms thrown out before them, their
faces abject against the floor. Kraft Gerding was slowly lowering
himself to one knee. Dink had entered the spider-room. Without
questions, he strode between the shiko-ing Earmuffs and put his arms
around Orison.
  
 
  "They can't harm you," he said. She turned to press her face against
his chest. "You're all right, child. Breathe deep, swallow, and turn
your brain back on. All right, now?"
  
 
  "All right," she said, still trembling. "They were going to throw me to
the spiders."
  
 
  "Kraft told you that?" Dink Gerding released her and turned to the
kneeling man. "Stand up, Elder Brother."
  
 
  "I...."
  
 
  Dink brought his right fist up from hip-level, crashing it into Kraft's
jaw. Kraft Gerding joined the Earmuffs on the floor.
  
 
  "If you'd care to stand again, Elder Brother, you may attempt to
recover your dignity without regard for the difference in our rank."
Kraft struggled to one knee and remained kneeling, gazing up at Dink
through half-closed eyes. "No? Then get out of here, all of you.
   
   Samma!
   
  "
  
 
  Kraft Gerding arose, stared for a moment at Dink and Orison, then, with
the merest hint of a bow, led his two giant Earmuffs to the elevator.
  
 
  "I wish you hadn't come up here, Orison," Dink said. "Why did you do
it?"
  
 
  "Have you read the story of Bluebeard?" Orison asked. She stood close
to Dink, keeping her eyes on the nearest spidertank. "I had to see
what it was you kept up here so secretly, what it was that I was
forbidden to see. My excuse was to have been that I was looking for
you, to deliver a message from Mr. Wanji. He said I was to tell you
that the escudo green is pale."
  
 
  "You're too curious, and Wanji is too careless," Dink said. "Now, what
is this thing you have about spiders?"
  
 
  "I've always been terrified of them," Orison said. "When I was a little
girl, I had to stay upstairs all day one Sunday because there was a
spider hanging from his thread in the stairway. I waited until Dad came
home and took it down with a broom. Even then, I didn't have appetite
for supper."
  
 
  "Strange," Dink said. He walked over to the nearest tank and plucked
one of the tiny pink creatures from a web-bridge. "This is no spider,
Orison," he said.
  
 
  She backed away from Dink Gerding and the minuscule creature he cupped
in the palm of his hand. "These are Microfabridae, more nearly related
to shellfish than to spiders," he said. "They're stone-and-metal
eaters. They literally couldn't harm a fly. Look at it, Orison." He
extended his palm. Orison forced herself to look. The little creature,
flesh-colored against his flesh, was nearly invisible, scuttling around
the bowl of his hand. "Pretty little fellow, isn't he?" Dink asked.
"Here. You hold him."
  
 
  "I'd rather not," she protested.
  
 
  "I'd be happier if you did," Dink said.
  
