Instead, Kraft Gerding smiled a smile as frosty as his mustache and
said, "I understand that my younger brother has been talking with you,
Miss McCall. Quite proper, I know. But I must warn you against mixing
business with pleasure."
  
 
  Orison jumped up, tossing the paper into her wastebasket. "I quit!" she
shouted. "You can take this crazy bank ... into bankruptcy, for all I
care. I'm not going to perch up here, target for every uncaged idiot in
finance, and listen to another word."
  
 
  "Dearest lady, my humblest pardon," Kraft Gerding said, bowing again,
a bit lower. "Your work is splendid; your presence is Taft Bank's most
charming asset; my only wish is to serve and protect you. To this end,
dear lady, I feel it my duty to warn you against my brother. A word to
the wise...."
  
 
  "
   
   N'est-ce pas?
   
  " Orison said. "Well, Buster, here's a word to the
foolish. Get lost."
  
 
  Kraft Gerding bowed and flashed his gelid smile. "Until we meet again?"
  
 
  "I'll hold my breath," Orison promised. "The elevator is just behind
you. Push a button, will you? And
   
   bon voyage
   
  ."
  
 
  Kraft Gerding called the elevator, marched aboard, favored Orison with
a cold, quick bow, then disappeared into the mysterious heights above
fifth floor.
  
 
  First the unspeakable Auga Vingt, then the obnoxious Kraft Gerding.
Surely, Orison thought, recovering the
   
   Wall Street Journal
   
  from her
wastebasket and smoothing it, no one would convert a major Midwestern
bank into a lunatic asylum. How else, though, could the behavior
of the Earmuffs be explained? Could madmen run a bank? Why not, she
thought. History is rich in examples of madmen running nations, banks
and all. She began again to read the paper into the microphone. If she
finished early enough, she might get a chance to prowl those Off-Limits
upper floors.
  
 
  Half an hour further into the paper, Orison jumped, startled by the
sudden buzz of her telephone. She picked it up. "
   
   Wanji e-Kal, Datto.
Dink ger-Dink d'summa.
   
  "
  
 
  Orison scribbled down this intelligence in bemused Gregg before
replying, "I'm a local girl. Try me in English."
  
 
  "Oh. Hi, Miss McCall," the voice said. "Guess I goofed. I'm in kinda
clutch. This is Wanji. I got a kite for Mr. Dink Gerding. If you see
him, tell him the escudo green is pale. Got that, doll?"
  
 
  "Yes, Mr. Wanji. I'll tell Mr. Gerding." Orison clicked the phone down.
What now, Mata Hari? she asked herself. What was the curious language
Mr. Wanji had used? She'd have to report the message to Washington by
tonight's pillow, and let the polyglots of Treasury Intelligence puzzle
it out. Meanwhile, she thought, scooting her chair back from her desk,
she had a vague excuse to prowl the upper floors. The Earmuffs could
only fire her.
  
 
  Orison folded the paper and put it in the "Out" basket. Someone would
be here in a moment with something new to read. She'd best get going.
The elevator? No. The operators had surely been instructed to keep her
off the upstairs floors.
  
 
  But the building had a stairway.
  
 
 
  III
  
 
  The door on the sixth floor was locked. Orison went on up the stairs to
seven. The glass of the door there was painted black on the inside, and
the landing was cellar-dark. Orison closed her eyes for a moment. There
was a curious sound. The buzzing of a million bees, barely within the
fringes of her hearing. Somehow, a very pleasant sound.
  
 
  She opened her eyes and tried the knob. The door opened.
  
 
  Orison was blinded by the lights, brilliant as noonday sun. The room
extended through the entire seventh floor, its windows boarded shut,
its ceiling a mass of fluorescent lamps. Set about the floor were
galvanized steel tanks, rectangular and a little bigger than bathtubs.
Orison counted the rows of tanks. Twelve rows, nine tiers. One hundred
and eight tanks. She walked closer. The tubs were laced together by
strands of angel-hair, delicate white lattices scintillating with
pink. She walked to the nearest of the tubs and looked in. It was half
full of a greenish fluid, seething with tiny pink bubbles. For a moment
Orison thought she saw Benjamin Franklin winking up at her from the
liquid. Then she screamed.
  
 
 
 
  The pink bubbles, the tiny flesh-colored flecks glinting light from
the spun-sugar bridges between the tanks, were spiders. Millions
upon millions of spiders, each the size of a mustard-seed; crawling,
leaping, swinging, spinning webs, seething in the hundred tanks. Orison
put her hands over her ears and screamed again, backing toward the
stairway door.
  
 
  Into a pair of arms.
  
 
  "I had hoped you'd be happy here, Miss McCall," Kraft Gerding said.
Orison struggled to release herself. She broke free only to have
her wrists seized by two Earmuffs that had appeared with the elder
Gerding. "It seems that our Pandora doesn't care for spiders," he
said. "Really, Miss McCall, our little pets are quite harmless. Were
we to toss you into one of these tanks...." Orison struggled against
her two
   
   sumo
   
  -sized captors, whose combined weights exceeded hers by
some quarter-ton, without doing more than lifting her feet from the
floor. "... your flesh would be unharmed, though they spun and darted
all around you. Our Microfabridae are petrovorous, Miss McCall. Of
course, once they discovered your teeth, and through them a skeleton of
calcium, a delicacy they find most toothsome, you'd be filleted within
minutes."
  
 
  "Elder Compassion wouldn't like your harming the girl, Sire," one of
the earmuffed
   
   sumo
   
  -wrestlers protested.
  
 
  "Elder Compassion has no rank," Kraft Gerding said. "Miss McCall, you
must tell me what you were doing here, or I'll toss you to the spiders."
  
 
  "Dink ... Dink!" Orison shouted.
  
 
  "My beloved younger brother is otherwise engaged than in the rescue of
damsels in distress," Kraft said. "Someone, after all, has to mind the
bank."
  
 
  "I came to bring a message to Dink," Orison said. "Let me go, you
acromegalic apes!"
  
 
  "The message?" Kraft Gerding demanded.
  
 
  "Something about escudo green. Put me down!"
  
