By lunchtime Orison had finished the
   
   Wall Street Journal
   
  and had
begun reading a book an earmuffed page had brought her. The book was a
fantastic novel of some sort, named
   
   The Hobbit
   
  . Reading this peculiar
fare into the microphone before her, Miss McCall was more certain than
ever that the Taft Bank was, as her boss in Washington had told her,
the front for some highly irregular goings-on. An odd business for a
Federal Mata Hari, Orison thought, reading a nonsense story into a
microphone for an invisible audience.
  
 
  Orison switched off her microphone at noon, marked her place in the
book and took the elevator down to the ground floor. The operator was
a new man, ears concealed behind scarlet earmuffs. In the car, coming
down from the interdicted upper floors, were several gentlemen with
briefcases. As though they were members of a ballet-troupe, these
gentlemen whipped off their hats with a single motion as Orison stepped
aboard the elevator. Each of the chivalrous men, hat pressed to his
heart, wore a pair of earmuffs. Orison nodded bemused acknowledgment
of their gesture, and got off in the lobby vowing never to put a penny
into this curiousest of banks.
  
 
  Lunch at the stand-up counter down the street was a normal interlude.
Girls from the ground-floor offices of Taft Bank chattered together,
eyed Orison with the coolness due so attractive a competitor, and
favored her with no gambit to enter their conversations. Orison sighed,
finished her tuna salad on whole-wheat, then went back upstairs to her
lonely desk and her microphone. By five, Orison had finished the book,
reading rapidly and becoming despite herself engrossed in the saga of
Bilbo Baggins, Hobbit. She switched off the microphone, put on her
light coat, and rode downstairs in an elevator filled with earmuffed,
silent, hat-clasping gentlemen.
  
 
  What I need, Orison thought, walking rapidly to the busline, is a
double Scotch, followed by a double Scotch. And what the William Howard
Taft National Bank and Trust Company needs is a joint raid by forces of
the U.S. Treasury Department and the American Psychiatric Association.
Earmuffs, indeed. Fairy-tales read into a microphone. A Vice-President
with the vocabulary of a racetrack tout. And what goes on in those
upper floors? Orison stopped in at the restaurant nearest her apartment
house—the Windsor Arms—and ordered a meal and a single Martini. Her
boss in Washington had told her that this job of hers, spying on Taft
Bank from within, might prove dangerous. Indeed it was, she thought.
She was in danger of becoming a solitary drinker.
  
 
  Home in her apartment, Orison set the notes of her first day's
observations in order. Presumably Washington would call tonight for
her initial report. Item: some of the men at the Bank wore earmuffs,
several didn't. Item: the Vice-President's name was Mr. Wanji:
Oriental? Item: the top eight floors of the Taft Bank Building seemed
to be off-limits to all personnel not wearing earmuffs. Item: she was
being employed at a very respectable salary to read newsprint and
nonsense into a microphone. Let Washington make sense of that, she
thought.
  
