Orison extended her hand as into a furnace. Dink brushed the
Microfabridus from his palm to hers. It felt crisp and hard, like
a legged grain of sand. Dink took a magnifier from his pocket and
unfolded it, to hold it over Orison's palm.
  
 
  "He's like a baby crawdad," Orison said.
  
 
  "A sort of crustacean," Dink agreed. "We use them in a commercial
process we're developing. That's why we keep this floor closed off and
secret. We don't have a patent on the use of Microfabridae, you see."
  
 
  "What do they do?" Orison asked.
  
 
  "That's still a secret," Dink said, smiling. "I can't tell even you
that, not yet, even though you're my most confidential secretary."
  
 
  "What's he doing now?" Orison asked, watching the Microfabridus,
perched up on the rear four of his six microscopic legs, scratching
against her high-school class-ring with his tiny chelae.
  
 
  "They like gold," Dink explained, peering across her shoulder,
comfortably close. "They're attracted to it by a chemical tropism, as
children are attracted to candy. Toss him back into his tank, Orison.
We'd better get you down where you belong."
  
 
  Orison brushed the midget crustacean off her finger into the nearest
tank, where he joined the busy boil of his fellows. She felt her ring.
It was pitted where the Microfabridus had been nibbling. "Strange,
using crawdads in a bank," she said. She stood silent for a moment. "I
thought I heard music," she said. "I heard it when I came in. Something
like the sighing of wind in winter trees."
  
 
  "That's the hymn of the Microfabridae," Dink said. "They all sing
together while they work, a chorus of some twenty million voices." He
took her arm. "If you listen very carefully, you'll find the song these
little workers sing the most beautiful music in the world."
  
 
  Orison closed her eyes, leaning back into Dink's arms, listening to
the music that seemed on the outermost edge of her hearing. Wildness,
storm and danger were its theme, counterpointed by promises of peace
and harbor. She heard the wash of giant waves in the song, the crash
of breakers against granite, cold and insatiable. And behind this, the
quiet of sheltered tide-pools, the soft lub of sea-arms landlocked.
"It's an ancient song," Dink said. "The Microfabridae have been
singing it for a million years." He released her, and opened a
wood-covered wooden box. He scooped up a cupful of the sand inside.
"Hold out your hands," he told Orison. He filled them with the sand.
"Throw our singers some supper for their song," he said.
  
 
  Orison went with her cupped hands to the nearest tank and sprinkled the
mineral fishfood around inside it. The Microfabridae leaped from the
liquid like miniature porpoises, seizing the grains of sand in mid-air.
"They're so very strange," Orison said. At the bottom of the tank she
thought she saw Ben Franklin again, winking at her through the bubbling
life. Nonsense, she thought, brushing her hands.
  
