The blow shook the gun from my fingers. It almost fell into the
   
   thing
   
  on the floor, but at the last moment seemed to change direction and
miss it.
  
 
  I knew something. "I don't wash because I drink coffee."
  
 
  "It's all right to drink coffee, isn't it?" he asked.
  
 
  "Of course," I said, and added absurdly, "That's why I don't wash."
  
 
  "You mean," Andre said slowly, ploddingly, "that if you bathed, you
would be admitting that drinking coffee was in the same class as any
other solitary vice that makes people wash frequently."
  
 
  I was knocked to my knees.
  
 
  "Kevin," the Martian said, "drinking coffee represents a major vice
only in Centurian humanoids, not Earth-norm human beings.
   
   Which are
you?
   
  "
  
 
  Nothing came out of my gabbling mouth.
  
 
  "
   
   What is Doc's full name?
   
  "
  
 
  I almost fell in, but at the last instant I caught myself and said,
"Doctor Kevin O'Malley, Senior."
  
 
  From the bed, Doc said a word. "Son."
  
 
  Then he disappeared.
  
 
  I looked at that which he had made. I wondered where he had gone, in
search of what.
  
 
  "He didn't use that," Andre said.
  
 
  So I was an Earthman, Doc's son. So my addiction to coffee was all in
my mind. That didn't change anything. They say sex is all in your mind.
I didn't want to be cured. I wouldn't be. Doc was gone. That was all I
had now. That and the
   
   thing
   
  he left.
  
 
  "The rest is simple," Andre said. "Doc O'Malley bought up all the stock
in a certain ancient metaphysical order and started supplying members
with certain books. Can you imagine the effect of the
   
   Book of Dyzan
   
  or the
   
   Book of Thoth
   
  or the
   
   Seven Cryptical Books of Hsan
   
  or the
   
   Necronomican
   
  itself on human beings?"
  
 
  "But they don't exist," I said wearily.
  
 
  "Exactly, Kevin, exactly. They have never existed any more than your
Victorian detective friend. But the unconscious racial mind has reached
back into time and created them. And that unconscious mind, deeper than
psychology terms the subconscious, has always known about the powers
of ESP, telepathy, telekinesis, precognition. Through these books,
the human race can tell itself how to achieve a state of pure logic,
without food, without sex, without conflict—just as Doc has achieved
such a state—a little late, true. He had a powerful guilt complex,
even stronger than your withdrawal, over releasing this blessing on
the inhabited universe, but reason finally prevailed. He had reached a
state of pure thought."
  
 
  "The North American government
   
   has
   
  to have this secret, Kevin," the
girl said. "You can't let it fall into the hands of the Martians."
  
