June looked in stunned silence at the stranger leaning against the
tree. Thirty-six light years—thirty-six times six trillion miles
of monotonous space travel—to be told that the planet was already
settled! "We didn't know there was a colony here," she said. "It is not
on the map."
  
 
  "We were afraid of that," the tall bronze man answered soberly. "We
have been here three generations and yet no traders have come."
  
 
  Max shifted the kit strap on his shoulder and offered a hand. "My name
is Max Stark, M.D. This is June Walton, M.D., Hal Barton, M.D., and
George Barton, Hal's brother, also M.D."
  
 
  "Patrick Mead is the name," smiled the man, shaking hands casually.
"Just a hunter and bridge carpenter myself. Never met any medicos
before."
  
 
  The grip was effortless but even through her airproofed glove June
could feel that the fingers that touched hers were as hard as padded
steel.
  
 
  "What—what is the population of Minos?" she asked.
  
 
  He looked down at her curiously for a moment before answering. "Only
one hundred and fifty." He smiled. "Don't worry, this isn't a city
planet yet. There's room for a few more people." He shook hands with
the Bartons quickly. "That is—you are people, aren't you?" he asked
startlingly.
  
 
  "Why not?" said Max with a poise that June admired.
  
 
  "Well, you are all so—so—" Patrick Mead's eyes roamed across the
faces of the group. "So varied."
  
 
  They could find no meaning in that, and stood puzzled.
  
 
  "I mean," Patrick Mead said into the silence, "all these—interesting
different hair colors and face shapes and so forth—" He made a vague
wave with one hand as if he had run out of words or was anxious not to
insult them.
  
 
  "Joke?" Max asked, bewildered.
  
 
  June laid a hand on his arm. "No harm meant," she said to him over the
intercom. "We're just as much of a shock to him as he is to us."
  
 
  She addressed a question to the tall colonist on outside sound. "What
should a person look like, Mr. Mead?"
  
 
  He indicated her with a smile. "Like you."
  
 
  June stepped closer and stood looking up at him, considering her own
description. She was tall and tanned, like him; had a few freckles,
like him; and wavy red hair, like his. She ignored the brightly
humorous blue eyes.
  
 
  "In other words," she said, "everyone on the planet looks like you and
me?"
  
 
  Patrick Mead took another look at their four faces and began to grin.
"Like me, I guess. But I hadn't thought of it before. I did not think
that people could have different colored hair or that noses could fit
so many ways onto faces. I was judging by my own appearance, but I
suppose any fool can walk on his hands and say the world is upside
down!" He laughed and sobered. "But then why wear spacesuits? The air
is breathable."
  
 
  "For safety," June told him. "We can't take any chances on plague."
  
 
  Pat Mead was wearing nothing but a loin cloth and his weapons, and the
wind ruffled his hair. He looked comfortable, and they longed to take
off the stuffy spacesuits and feel the wind against their own skins.
Minos was like home, like Earth.... But they were strangers.
  
 
  "Plague," Pat Mead said thoughtfully. "We had one here. It came two
years after the colony arrived and killed everyone except the Mead
families. They were immune. I guess we look alike because we're all
related, and that's why I grew up thinking that it is the only way
people can look."
  
 
 
   Plague.
   
  "What was the disease?" Hal Barton asked.
  
 
  "Pretty gruesome, according to my father. They called it the melting
sickness. The doctors died too soon to find out what it was or what to
do about it."
  
 
  "You should have trained for more doctors, or sent to civilization for
some." A trace of impatience was in George Barton's voice.
  
 
  Pat Mead explained patiently, "Our ship, with the power plant and all
the books we needed, went off into the sky to avoid the contagion,
and never came back. The crew must have died." Long years of hardship
were indicated by that statement, a colony with electric power gone
and machinery stilled, with key technicians dead and no way to replace
them. June realized then the full meaning of the primitive sheath knife
and bow.
  
 
  "Any recurrence of melting sickness?" asked Hal Barton.
  
 
  "No."
  
 
  "Any other diseases?"
  
 
  "Not a one."
  
 
  Max was eyeing the bronze red-headed figure with something approaching
awe. "Do you think all the Meads look like that?" he said to June on
the intercom. "I wouldn't mind being a Mead myself!"
  
