 
  COSMIC YO-YO
  
 
  By ROSS ROCKLYNNE
  
 
  "Want an asteroid in your backyard? We supply
   
  cheap. Trouble also handled without charge."
   
  Interplanetary Hauling Company. (ADVT.)
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Planet Stories Summer 1945.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  Bob Parker, looking through the photo-amplifiers at the wedge-shaped
asteroid, was plainly flabbergasted. Not in his wildest imaginings had
he thought they would actually find what they were looking for.
  
 
  "Cut the drive!" he yelled at Queazy. "I've got it, right on the nose.
Queazy, my boy, can you imagine it? We're in the dough. Not only that,
we're rich! Come here!"
  
 
  Queazy discharged their tremendous inertia into the motive-tubes in
such a manner that the big, powerful ship was moving at the same rate
as the asteroid below—47.05 miles per second. He came slogging back
excitedly, put his eyes to the eyepiece. He gasped, and his big body
shook with joyful ejaculations.
  
 
  "She checks down to the last dimension," Bob chortled, working with
slide-rule and logarithm tables. "Now all we have to do is find out if
she's made of tungsten, iron, quartz crystals, and cinnabar! But there
couldn't be two asteroids of that shape anywhere else in the Belt, so
this has to be it!"
  
 
  He jerked a badly crumpled ethergram from his pocket, smoothed it out,
and thumbed his nose at the signature.
  
 
  "Whee! Mr. Andrew S. Burnside, you owe us five hundred and fifty
thousand dollars!"
  
 
  Queazy straightened. A slow, likeable smile wreathed his tanned face.
"Better take it easy," he advised, "until I land the ship and we use
the atomic whirl spectroscope to determine the composition of the
asteroid."
  
 
  "Have it your way," Bob Parker sang, happily. He threw the ethergram
to the winds and it fell gently to the deck-plates. While Queazy—so
called because his full name was Quentin Zuyler—dropped the ship
straight down to the smooth surface of the asteroid, and clamped it
tight with magnetic grapples, Bob flung open the lazarette, brought
out two space-suits. Moments later, they were outside the ship, with
star-powdered infinity spread to all sides.
  
 
  In the ship, the ethergram from Andrew S. Burnside, of Philadelphia,
one of the richest men in the world, still lay on the deck-plates. It
was addressed to: Mr. Robert Parker, President Interplanetary Hauling &
Moving Co., 777 Main Street, Satterfield City, Fontanaland, Mars. The
ethergram read:
  
 
 
   Received your advertising literature a week ago. Would like to state
that yes I would like an asteroid in my back yard. Must meet following
specifications: 506 feet length, long enough for wedding procession;
98 feet at base, tapering to 10 feet at apex; 9-12 feet thick; topside
smooth-plane, underside rough-plane; composed of iron ore, tungsten,
quartz crystals, and cinnabar. Must be in my back yard before 11:30
A.M. my time, for important wedding June 2, else order is void. Will
pay $5.00 per ton.
   
 
