  DEATH STAR
  
 
  By TOM PACE
  
 
  Trapped by the most feared of space pirates
   
  Devil Garrett, Starrett Blade was fighting for
   
  his life. Weaponless, his ship gone, he was
   
  pinning his hopes on a girl—who wanted him dead.
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Planet Stories Spring 1945.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  Starrett Blade crouched in the rocks by the tiny Centaurian lake. It
was only about two or three hundred feet across, but probably thousands
of feet deep. This lake, and hundreds of others like it, were the
only things to break the monotony of the flat, rocky surface of Alpha
Centauri III—called the most barren planet in space.
  
 
  Ten minutes ago, Star Blade's ship had spun into the stagnant waters
before him. An emergency release had flung the air-lock doors open, and
the air pressure had flung Star out. And now he was waiting for Devil
Garrett to come down to the water's edge to search for him.
  
 
  For eight years, Devil Garrett had been the top space pirate in the
void. For a year, Star himself had personally been hunting him. And on
a tour over Alpha III, a Barden energy-beam had stabbed up at Blade's
ship, and Star Blade had crashed into the lake.
  
 
  That Barden Beam had Star worried and puzzled. It took a million volts
of power for a split-second flash of the beam. Garrett didn't have an
atomics plant on Alpha III—if he had, escaping rays would point it
out, no matter how well it was camouflaged. There was no water power,
for there was no running water. There were only the lakes ... and tidal
power was out, for Alpha III had no moon.
  
 
  However, that could wait. Star slid the electron knife from his
water-proof sheath, gripped it firmly. He could hear quick footsteps as
a man came down the trail that led directly past his hiding place.
  
 
  It wasn't Garrett, which was disappointing. But it was one of his men,
and he was heavily armed. That didn't worry Star.
  
 
  His fighting had earned Starrett Blade the nickname of "Death Star."
  
 
  The man walked to the water's edge, and peered out over the pool. He
saw the bubbles that were coming up from the sinking ship, and he
nodded, grunted in satisfaction, and started to turn back.
  
 
  Star landed on him, knocking him sprawling on the rock. The pirate
jerked up an arm, holding the jet-gun.
  
 
  The stabbing lance of blue fire cracked from the electron knife, dug
into the man's heart.
  
 
  Star tossed the dead pirate's cloak over his shoulders, and thrust both
electron blade and jet-gun into his belt. He straightened, and saw the
leveled gun from the corner of his eye.
  
 
  He got the jet in his right hand, the knife in his left, and went into
a dive that flipped him behind a rock. The three actions took only a
split-second, and the blast from the jet-gun flaked rock where he had
been standing.
  
 
  While a jet-gun is the most deadly weapon known, you have to press a
loading stud to slide another blast-capsule into place. Death Star knew
this very well. So he knew he was safe in coming up from behind the
spur of stone to fire his own gun.
  
 
  If his reflexes hadn't been as quick as they were, he would have
blasted the girl.
  
