He stopped, and stood for a second, staring at the girl. She was
something to invite stares, too. In the moment that lasted between her
next move, he had time to register that she was about five feet five
tall, black-haired—the kind of black hair that looks like silken spun
darkness—dark-eyed, and possessing both a face and a form that would
make anyone stop and gulp.
  
 
  Then the moment of half-awed survey was over, and she leveled the jet
on him, and said in a trembling voice, "Drop those weapons, or I'll
blast you ...
   
   pirate
   
  !"
  
 
  Death Star said, "That jet-gun is empty. I can see the register on the
magazine. And I'm not a pirate. I'm Starrett Blade."
  
 
  The useless jet-gun slid out of the girl's hand, and she gave a
half-gasp. "Starrett Blade! I—I don't believe ..." she broke off
abruptly. "So you're Death Star! A fine story for a hired killer, a
pirate."
  
 
  Star reddened. "Look," he snapped, "I don't know who's been talking to
you, but ..." he whirled, and his hand whipped the jet-gun from his
belt. As he did so, the girl jerked up the jet-gun she had dropped, and
flung it with all her strength. The blow landed on his arm and side,
and paralyzed him long enough for the man who had leaped out behind him
to land a stunning blow against his head. As Star went down, he dizzily
cursed himself for becoming interested in the argument with the girl,
so that he did not heed his reflexes in time ... and dimly, he wondered
why it had seemed so important to convince the lovely dark-haired girl.
  
 
  Then a bit of the cosmos seemed to fall on Star's head, and he was
hurled into blackness.
  
 
  An eternity seemed to pass.
  
 
  Deep in the blackness, a light was born. It leaped toward him, a
far-away comet rocketing along, coming from some far, unknown corner
of the galaxy. It became a flaming sun in a gray-green space, and
strangely, there seemed to be several odd planets circling about the
sun. Some of them were vast pieces of queer electronic machinery. Some
were vague, villainous-looking men. One was the dark-haired girl, and
there was lovely contempt in her dark-star pools of eyes.
  
 
  Then into the midst of this queer universe, there swam a new planet. It
was the face of a man, and the man was Devil Garrett.
  
 
  That brought Star up, out of his daze, onto his feet as though he had
been doused with cold water. He stood there, not staring, just looking
at Garrett.
  
 
  The most famous killer in the void was big. He was six feet three, and
twice as strong as he looked. He wore a huge high-velocity jet-gun, and
a set of electron knives, all of the finest workmanship. He was sitting
on a laboratory chair of steel, and the chair bent slightly under his
great weight.
  
 
  He smiled at Star, and there was a touch of hell in the smile. He said,
"Ah, Mr. Garrett."
  
 
  Star's jaw dropped. "Garrett? What do you—" he broke off. A glance at
the girl told him what the purpose was.
  
 
  "Look, Mr. Devil Garrett," said the pirate, still smiling softly, "Miss
Hinton is aware of your identity. There is no need to attempt to fool
us.... I've known it was you ever since I flashed that beam at your
ship. And you needn't flatter yourself that the Devil's luck is going
to hold out as far as you are concerned. For in a very short while,
I'm going to have you executed ... before a stellar vision screen,
connected with Section Void Headquarters! I wish the authorities to see
Devil Garrett die, so that I might collect the reward that is offered
on you!"
  
 
  Star stood quiet, and looked straight into Garrett's eyes. After a
minute of silence, Garrett's lips twisted into a smile, and he said
mockingly, "Well, pirate? What are you thinking of?"
  
 
  Star said, in a low, cold voice, "I'm thinking of putting an electron
fire-blade into your face, Devil Garrett!"
  
 
  Garrett laughed ... huge, rather evil, bluff laughter. The mirth of a
person who is both powerful and dangerous. And then the girl leaped
forward, shaking with rage.
  
 
  "You beast! Murderer! To accuse this man ... you fool, you might have
been able to complete any scheme of escape you had, if you hadn't
called yourself Starrett Blade! Mr. Blade...." She gestured toward
Garrett, who made a mocking, sardonic bow. "... has given me ample
proof that he is who he says! And this long before you came. He's shown
me papers giving a description and showing a tri-dimension picture of
you...."
  
 
  Fire leaped in Star's eyes. "Listen ..." he snapped furiously, as he
started to step forward. Then Garrett made a signal with his hand, and
someone drove a fist against the base of Star's skull.
  
