At first he tried to push himself erect, his head whirling with sick
dizziness, and bewilderment. Through a twisting haze, he peered up at
the girl's face. It reflected a look that, amazingly, was one of—with
no other phrase to do—compassion. Star half-sighed, and laid his head
on the girl's breast, and closed his eyes.
  
 
  In a minute or two, she said tensely, "Are you all right?" Star looked
up at her.
  
 
  "I guess so. Here—give a hand while I get my balance." She held him as
he tried a step or two, and then he straightened. "I guess I'll be all
right, now," he smiled. "My head feels like—say! How come you're doing
this? What made you change your mind? And who are you?"
  
 
  She said quickly, breathlessly, "I know you're Star Blade, now. That
transmission set.... I can read lips! I
   
   knew
   
  what that officer was
saying! It was just as if I had
   
   heard
   
  him say that ... that you were
Starrett Blade and that man out there is Devil Garrett!" she made a
choking sound. "And I've been here, alone, for a month! For a month!"
  
 
  "A month? Huh—please—you...?"
  
 
  Star took a breath, and started over. "You.... Who
   
   are
   
  you? What are
you doing here?"
  
 
  She said, "I'm Anne Hinton. My father is Old John Hinton. Have you
heard of him?"
  
 
  "Of course!" said Star. "He manufactures most of the equipment '
   
   Blade
Cosmian
   
  ' uses. Weapons, Hineson Sub-Spacers, Star-Traveler craft ...
the ship I was in when Garrett brought me down was a Hinton craft. I
should have recognized the name. But go on. What—"
  
 
  "Garrett communicated with dad, secretly. He posed as Starrett
Blade, as you, and told dad that he was developing certain new power
processes. And he is! He has a new—or maybe it isn't so new—way of
electrolyzing water to liberate hydrogen and oxygen."
  
 
  "I think I understand," said Star quickly. "When the oxygen and
hydrogen are allowed to combine, and produce an explosion which drive
a turbine-generator. Then that could be hitched up to a cyclotron, and
even the most barren of Alpha's lake-rock planets could be...."
  
 
  "No," she shook her head puzzledly. "It's just electric power. He said
that atomics would release stray rays that would attract pirates."
  
 
  "I know," Star nodded, abstractedly. "I was thinking of another
application of it ... hmm. But say! What was Garrett after? I know that
he wouldn't do this just to get a secret process sold. He must have had
another plan behind it. Got any idea?"
  
 
  Anne shook her head slowly. "I don't know. I can't see...."
  
 
  "Perhaps I could help you?" Devil Garrett asked smoothly from the door.
  
 
  Star whirled, thrust Anne behind him, but there was no way out. Garrett
stood in the door, and there were men behind him. The jet in his hand
could kill both of the two at one shot. And they had no weapons to
resist with.
  
 
  Devil Garrett stepped them out of the room, and down the corridor,
through a large door Star had noticed at the end of the passage, and
into a huge room.
  
 
  It must have been a thousand feet long, and half that wide. It was at
least a hundred yards deep. And it was almost filled with gigantic
machines.
  
 
  Between the machinery, the spaces were almost filled with steel ladders
and cat-walks. Crews of men swarmed over them. It was the largest mass
of equipment Starrett had ever seen.
  
 
  His eyes began to pick out details. Those huge vat-like things down
at the far end, with the large cables running into them, and the
mighty pumps connected to them ... they were probably the electrolysis
chambers.
  
 
  And those great pipes, they must carry the hydrogen and oxygen from
the electro chambers to the large replicas of engines, which could be
nothing else but the explosion chambers, where the gases were allowed
to re-unite, and explode. And there by the giant engines, those must be
turbines, which in turn connected with the vast-sized generators just
under the platforms on which they stood.
  
