When Star came to, he was in a cell of sorts. A man standing by the
door told him that he was to be executed, "... after Mr. Blade and the
lady have eaten." Starrett swore at him, and the man went out, with a
mocking "Goodbye, Mr. Garrett!"
  
 
  Star got up. His head spun, and he almost fell at first, but the daze
left in his head from the two blows quickly cleared away. He felt for
various weapons which he had hidden about him ... and found them gone.
Garrett's men had searched carefully.
  
 
  Star sat down, his head spinning more now from mystery than from
physical pain. He had to keep himself in a whole skin, of course. That
was most important right now. But other things were bothering him,
tugging at his mind like waves slapping around a swamped ship, each
trying to shove it in a different direction.
  
 
  There was the girl. Star wondered why she always leaped into his mind
first. And there was the way Garrett was trying to leave the impression
that he was Blade, so that he could kill Blade as Garrett.
  
 
  Obviously, the reason for that was the girl, Miss Hinton, Garrett had
called her. She had been shown faked papers by Garrett, papers proving
that the two were ... were whatever Garrett had twisted the story into!
  
 
  Star clutched at his head. He was in a mess. He was going to be killed,
and he was going to die without knowing the score. And he didn't like
that. Nor did he like dying as Star Blade shouldn't die; executed as
a "wolf's-head" pirate. The girl would be watching, and he felt as if
that would make it far worse.
  
 
  His head came up, and he smiled flintily. He still had an ace card! One
hand felt for it, and he shook his head slowly. It was a gamble ... but
all the others had been found.
  
 
  Blade looked up quickly, as the door opened. Two men came into the
cell, carrying jet-guns. They motioned Blade to his feet. "Come on,
Blade." One began, when the other hit him across the mouth.
  
 
  "You fool!" he hissed. "You better not call him that; suppose that
girl was to hear it? Until the boss gets what he wants on Earth, that
girl has got to think that he's Blade! We're killing this guy as Devil
Garrett! And a loud-mouthed fool like you ... look out!"
  
 
  Blade had landed on the bickering men, and was grappling with the one
who had called him by name. As the other leaped forward, swinging a
clubbing blow with a jet-gun, Star tripped one man into the corner, and
ducked under the gun. He hit the man in the stomach, drove a shoulder
up under his arms, and smashed the man's face in with a series of sharp
blows. The man went reeling backward across the room, and Star's hand
leaped toward that "ace card" which he still held.
  
 
  Devil Garrett stepped in the door, and made a mock out of a courteous
bow. As he did so, Star snarled in rage, but stood very still, for the
electron knife in Garrett's hand did not waver.
  
 
  Garrett gestured silently toward the door, and Star, equally silent,
walked over and out, at the point of the weapon.
  
