Star Blade whistled softly through his teeth. A huge enterprise! It
could be ... but for a moment he had forgotten Devil Garrett.
  
 
  The girl standing by his side, Star turned toward Garrett. "Well?"
  
 
  Garrett smiled his mocking grin. "You grasp the principle, of course.
But let me show you ... you see those pipes that run from the turbines
after the wheels?"
  
 
  "Yes. They carry the gases off. Where do they lead?"
  
 
  "Into giant subterranean caverns beneath the surface!" Garrett said.
"Now look over there, on the platforms across from us. Can you
recognize a Barden energy-beamer, Blade? Run by power from my little
plant here, which is run by water from a thousand lakes!
  
 
  "Just imagine, if you can, hundreds of those plants all over Alpha
III. And each one with dozens of high-powered Barden beams to protect
it! And Hinton ray screens to protect us from radio-controlled rocket
shells from space, or Barden Rays, or any other weapon of offence, or
to warn if anyone lands on this planet!" Garrett leaned forward, his
eyes aglow.
  
 
  "Blade, I'll take over the few governing posts on this little planet,
and I'll rule an entire world, a whole planet to myself! It'll be the
first time in history! And it won't be the last. With the Hinton secret
patents, the plans of all John Hinton's inventions and processes...."
  
 
  Star twisted, and got his "ace card" out of its hiding place.
  
 
  It was a jet weapon, little more than a jet-blast capsule for a
jet-gun. The sides were thicker and stronger, and there was a device
fixed on it so it could be fired. Altogether, it was somewhat smaller
than an old-style fountain pen.
  
 
  He twisted up from the floor, and moved faster than he had moved ever
before. Star was famous for his speed and the quickness and alertness
of his reflexes. He earned his fame a score of times over in that one
instant.
  
 
 
 
  And Devil Garrett died.
  
 
  There was perhaps an eighth of a second between the staff of blue white
fire from the tiny jet in Star's hand and the huge broadsword of fire
from Garrett's gun. But in the split-second Star's fire knifed into
Garrett's vitals, and Garrett gave a convulsive jerk, and fired even as
his muscles started the jerking movement.
  
 
  And the flame went over Star's head, singeing his scalp.
  
 
  Of the four men with Garrett, one let go of the struggling Anne, and
swore as he snatched at an electron knife in his belt. Anne's hand
had already whipped the knife out, and without bothering to press the
electron stud, she buried the knife in his back.
  
 
  Two of the remaining men whirled, and went for the door as though a
devil was after them. The other tried to get a jet-gun out. It was his
final mistake. A blue lance from Anne's knife whipped close enough to
him to make him dodge, and then Star got his hand on Garrett's jet.
  
 
  The other two men had, in their flight, taken a door which led, not
into the large corridor, but into a small room at one side, a room
filled with instruments and recording devices for the machinery in the
room below. Star leaped to the side of the door, and called, "Are you
going to come out, or am I coming in to get you?"
  
 
  There was a short silence, in which Anne heard one say hoarsely, "He
can't get us ... we could get him if he came in the door."
  
 
  "Oh, yes?" was the answer. "Do you know who that guy is? He's the one
they call 'Death Star.' I'm not facing Starrett Blade in a gun fight.
You can do what you like, but I'm leaving." Then he lifted his voice.
"Hey, Blade! I'm coming out. Don't shoot."
  
