Star Blade stood before a transmitter, and thought about death.
  
 
  He was very close to it. Garrett stood five yards away, a gun in
his hand, and the muzzle trained on Blade's chest. The gun was the
universally used weapon of execution, an old projectile-firing weapon.
  
 
  Star did not doubt that Devil Garrett was an excellent shot with it.
  
 
  The girl, very round-eyed and nervous, sat by Garrett. He had explained
to her that Garrett was the type of pirate that it is law to kill, or
have executed, by anyone. Which was very true.
  
 
  A man stepped away from the transmitter, and nodded to Garrett. Star
felt a surge of hope, as he saw that it was a two-way transmitter. If
the image of an Interstellar Command headquarters was tuned in—Garrett
would undoubtedly do it, if only to show the police that he had killed
Starrett Blade—then Garrett could not kill him and cut the beam in
time to prevent one of the police from giving a cry that would echo
over the sub-space beam arriving almost instantly in this room, and let
the girl know that she had been tricked. And Garrett would not want
that. Not that it would matter to Starrett Blade.
  
 
  Then Star saw what kind of a transmitter it was, and he groaned. It
was not a Hineson Sub-space beamer ... it was an old-style transmitter
which had different wave speeds, because of the different space-bridger
units in it.
  
 
  The visual image would arrive many seconds before the sound did. Thus
the girl would not hear Garrett revealed, but would see only Blade's
death. And then ... whatever Garrett had planned, Blade wished heartily
that he could have the chance to interfere.
  
 
  The beam was coming in. Star saw the mists swimming on the screen
change, solidify into a figure ... the figure of District Commander
Weddel seated at a desk. He saw Weddel's eyebrows rise, saw his lips
move—then Garrett stepped over a pace, and Weddel saw him, saw the gun
in his hand....
  
 
  The police officer yelled, silently, and came to his feet, an
expression of shocked surprise on his face—surprise, Blade thought
desperately, that the girl might interpret as shock at seeing Devil
Garrett.
  
 
  Which was right, in a way.
  
 
  Then, as Commander Weddel leapt to his feet, as Devil Garrett's
finger tightened on the trigger, as the girl sucked in her breath
involuntarily, Star Blade scooped up a bit of metal—a fork—and flung
it at the vision transmitter.
  
 
  Not at the screen. But at the equipment behind the dial-board. At a
certain small unit, which was almost covered by wires and braces for
the large tubes. And the fork struck it, bit deep, and caused result.
  
 
  Result in the form of a burned-out set. If television equipment can
curse, that set cursed them. Its spitting of sparks and blue electric
flame mingled with a strange, high-pitched whine.
  
 
  It was the diversion that caused Garrett to miss Star, which gave him
time to pull three or four of Garrett's men onto the floor with him.
One of the men drove the butt of a jet-gun into the side of Star's
head, and for the third time, he went very limp. The last thing he saw
was the girl.
  
 
  Somehow, the expression on her face was different from what it had
been. He was searching for the difference, when the blow struck
him. Somewhere in the space that lies between consciousness and
unconsciousness, he reflected bitterly that if he kept staring at the
girl when he should be fighting, he might not recover some day. This
was the third time that he had been knocked out that way. It was not
getting monotonous. He still felt it a novelty.
  
 
  Star awoke in the same prison cell, facing the wall away from the door.
He wondered if he were still alive, tried to move his head, and decided
that he wasn't. He didn't even get up or look around when he dimly
heard the door being opened.
  
 
  But when he heard the girl's voice, he came up and around very swiftly,
despite his head.
  
 
  It was the girl all right. Even through the tumbled mists of his brain,
he could see that she was not a dream. And as he reeled and fell
against the wall, she was beside him in a flash, her arm supporting him.
  
