She was still speaking: "Ten years to cross the Galaxy, without
stopping. At present, no ship is capable of that. Real scheduling is
impossible. Populations shift and have to be supplied. A ship is taken
off a run for repairs and is never put back on. It's more urgently
needed elsewhere. The man who depended on it is left waiting; years
pass before he learns it's never coming.
  
 
  "If we had instantaneous radio, that would help. Confusion wouldn't
vanish overnight, but it would diminish. We wouldn't have to depend
on ships for all the news. Reservations could be made ahead of time,
credit established, lost identification replaced—"
  
 
  "I've traveled before," he interrupted stiffly. "I've never had any
trouble."
  
 
  She seemed to be exaggerating the difficulties. True, the center was
more congested. Taking each star as the starting point for a limited
number of ships and using statistical probability as a guide—why, no
man would arrive at his predetermined destination.
  
 
  But that wasn't the way it worked. Manifestly, you couldn't compare
galactic transportation to the erratic paths of air molecules in a
giant room. Or could you?
  
 
  For the average man, anyone who didn't have his own inter-stellar ship,
was the comparison too apt? It might be.
  
 
  "You've traveled outside, where there are still free planets waiting to
be settled. Where a man is welcome, if he's able to work." She paused.
"The center is different. Populations are excessive. Inside the third
ring, no man is allowed off a ship without an identification tab. They
don't encourage immigration."
  
 
  In effect, that meant no ship bound for the center would take a
passenger without identification. No ship owner would run the risk of
having a permanent guest on board, someone who couldn't be rid of when
his money was gone.
  
 
  Cassal held his head in his hands. Tunney 21 was inside the third ring.
  
 
  "Next time," she said, "don't let anyone take your identification."
  
 
  "I won't," he promised grimly.
  
