She glanced down at the data. "Denton Cassal, native of Earth.
Destination, Tunney 21." She looked up at him. "Occupation, sales
engineer. Isn't that an odd combination?" Her smile was quite superior.
  
 
  "Not at all. Scientific training as an engineer. Special knowledge of
customer relations."
  
 
  "Special knowledge of a thousand races? How convenient." Her eyebrows
arched.
  
 
  "I think so," he agreed blandly. "Anything else you'd like to know?"
  
 
  "Sorry. I didn't mean to offend you."
  
 
  He could believe that or not as he wished. He didn't.
  
 
  "You refused to answer why you were going to Tunney 21. Perhaps I can
guess. They're the best scientists in the Galaxy. You wish to study
under them."
  
 
  Close—but wrong on two counts. They were good scientists, though not
necessarily the best. For instance, it was doubtful that they could
build Dimanche, even if they had ever thought of it, which was even
less likely.
  
 
  There was, however, one relatively obscure research worker on Tunney 21
that Neuronics wanted on their staff. If the fragments of his studies
that had reached Earth across the vast distance meant anything, he
could help Neuronics perfect instantaneous radio. The company that
could build a radio to span the reaches of the Galaxy with no time lag
could set its own price, which could be control of all communications,
transport, trade—a galactic monopoly. Cassal's share would be a cut of
all that.
  
 
  His part was simple, on the surface. He was to persuade that researcher
to come to Earth,
   
   if he could
   
  . Literally, he had to guess the
Tunnesian's price before the Tunnesian himself knew it. In addition,
the reputation of Tunnesian scientists being exceeded only by their
arrogance, Cassal had to convince him that he wouldn't be working
for ignorant Earth savages. The existence of such an instrument as
Dimanche was a key factor.
  
 
  Her voice broke through his thoughts. "Now, then, what's your problem?"
  
 
  "I was told on Earth I might have to wait a few days on Godolph. I've
been here three weeks. I want information on the ship bound for Tunney
21."
  
 
  "Just a moment." She glanced at something below the angle of the
screen. She looked up and her eyes were grave. "
   
   Rickrock C
   
  arrived
yesterday. Departed for Tunney early this morning."
  
 
  "Departed?" He got up and sat down again, swallowing hard. "When will
the next ship arrive?"
  
 
  "Do you know how many stars there are in the Galaxy?" she asked.
  
 
  He didn't answer.
  
