The woman looked directly at him. Her eyes were bright. He revised his
estimate of her age drastically downward. She couldn't be as old as he.
Nothing outward had happened, but she no longer seemed dowdy. Not that
he was interested. Still, it might pay him to be friendly to the first
counselor.
  
 
  "We're a philanthropic agency," said Murra Foray. "Your case is
special, though—"
  
 
  "I understand," he said gruffly. "You accept contributions."
  
 
  She nodded. "If the donor is able to give. We don't ask so much that
you'll have to compromise your standard of living." But she named a sum
that would force him to do just that if getting to Tunney 21 took any
appreciable time.
  
 
  He stared at her unhappily. "I suppose it's worth it. I can always
work, if I have to."
  
 
  "As a salesman?" she asked. "I'm afraid you'll find it difficult to do
business with Godolphians."
  
 
  Irony wasn't called for at a time like this, he thought reproachfully.
  
 
  "Not just another salesman," he answered definitely. "I have special
knowledge of customer reactions. I can tell exactly—"
  
 
  He stopped abruptly. Was she baiting him? For what reason? The
instrument he called Dimanche was not known to the Galaxy at large.
From the business angle, it would be poor policy to hand out that
information at random. Aside from that, he needed every advantage he
could get. Dimanche was his special advantage.
  
 
  "Anyway," he finished lamely, "I'm a first class engineer. I can
always find something in that line."
  
 
  "A scientist, maybe," murmured Murra Foray. "But in this part of the
Milky Way, an engineer is regarded as merely a technician who hasn't
yet gained practical experience." She shook her head. "You'll do better
as a salesman."
  
 
  He got up, glowering. "If that's all—"
  
 
  "It is. We'll keep you informed. Drop your contribution in the slot
provided for that purpose as you leave."
  
 
  A door, which he hadn't noticed in entering the counselling cubicle,
swung open. The agency was efficient.
  
 
  "Remember," the counselor called out as he left, "identification is
hard to work with. Don't accept a crude forgery."
  
 
  He didn't answer, but it was an idea worth considering. The agency was
also eminently practical.
  
 
  The exit path guided him firmly to an inconspicuous and yet inescapable
contribution station. He began to doubt the philanthropic aspect of the
bureau.
  
