Denton Cassal, sales engineer, paused for a mental survey of himself.
He was a good engineer and, because he was exceptionally well matched
to his instrument, the best salesman that Neuronics, Inc., had. On the
basis of these qualifications, he had been selected to make a long
journey, the first part of which already lay behind him. He had to go
to Tunney 21 to see a man. That man wasn't important to anyone save the
company that employed him, and possibly not even to them.
  
 
  The thug trailing him wouldn't be interested in Cassal himself, his
mission, which was a commercial one, nor the man on Tunney. And money
wasn't the objective, if Dimanche's analysis was right. What
   
   did
   
  the
thug want?
  
 
  Secrets? Cassal had none, except, in a sense, Dimanche. And that was
too well kept on Earth, where the instrument was invented and made, for
anyone this far away to have learned about it.
  
 
  And yet the thug wanted to kill him. Wanted to? Regarded him as good as
dead. It might pay him to investigate the matter further, if it didn't
involve too much risk.
  
 
  "Better start moving." That was Dimanche. "He's getting suspicious."
  
 
  Cassal went slowly along the narrow walkway that bordered each side of
that boulevard, the transport tide. It was raining again. It usually
was on Godolph, which was a weather-controlled planet where the natives
like rain.
  
 
  He adjusted the controls of the weak force field that repelled the
rain. He widened the angle of the field until water slanted through it
unhindered. He narrowed it around him until it approached visibility
and the drops bounced away. He swore at the miserable climate and the
near amphibians who created it.
  
 
  A few hundred feet away, a Godolphian girl waded out of the transport
tide and climbed to the walkway. It was this sort of thing that made
life dangerous for a human—Venice revised, brought up to date in a
faster-than-light age.
  
 
  Water. It was a perfect engineering material. Simple, cheap, infinitely
flexible. With a minimum of mechanism and at break-neck speed, the
ribbon of the transport tide flowed at different levels throughout
the city. The Godolphian merely plunged in and was carried swiftly
and noiselessly to his destination. Whereas a human—Cassal shivered.
If he were found drowned, it would be considered an accident. No
investigation would be made. The thug who was trailing him had
certainly picked the right place.
  
 
  The Godolphian girl passed. She wore a sleek brown fur, her own. Cassal
was almost positive she muttered a polite "Arf?" as she sloshed by.
What she meant by that, he didn't know and didn't intend to find out.
  
 
  "Follow her," instructed Dimanche. "We've got to investigate our man at
closer range."
  
