Horrified, Cassal gazed at the body. Self-defense, of course, but
would the police believe it? Assuming they did, they'd still have to
investigate. The rapier was an illegal concealed weapon. And they would
question him until they discovered Dimanche. Regrettable, but what
could he do about it?
  
 
  Suppose he were detained long enough to miss the ship bound for Tunney
21?
  
 
  Grimly, he laid down the rapier. He might as well get to the bottom of
this. Why had the man attacked? What did he want?
  
 
  "I don't know," replied Dimanche irritably. "I can interpret body
data—a live body. I can't work on a piece of meat."
  
 
  Cassal searched the body thoroughly. Miscellaneous personal articles
of no value in identifying the man. A clip with a startling amount
of money in it. A small white card with something scribbled on it. A
picture of a woman and a small child posed against a background which
resembled no world Cassal had ever seen. That was all.
  
 
  Cassal stood up in bewilderment. Dimanche to the contrary, there seemed
to be no connection between this dead man and his own problem of
getting to Tunney 21.
  
 
  Right now, though, he had to dispose of the body. He glanced toward the
boulevard. So far no one had been attracted by the violence.
  
 
  He bent down to retrieve the lighter-rapier. Dimanche shouted at him.
Before he could react, someone landed on him. He fell forward, vainly
trying to grasp the weapon. Strong fingers felt for his throat as he
was forced to the ground.
  
 
  He threw the attacker off and staggered to his feet. He heard footsteps
rushing away. A slight splash followed. Whoever it was, he was escaping
by way of water.
  
 
  Whoever it was. The man he had thought he had slain was no longer in
sight.
  
 
  "Interpret body data, do you?" muttered Cassal. "Liveliest dead man
I've ever been strangled by."
  
 
  "It's just possible there are some breeds of men who can control the
basic functions of their body," said Dimanche defensively. "When I
checked him, he had no heartbeat."
  
 
  "Remind me not to accept your next evaluation so completely," grunted
Cassal. Nevertheless, he was relieved, in a fashion. He hadn't
   
   wanted
   
  to kill the man. And now there was nothing he'd have to explain to the
police.
  
 
  He needed the cigarette he stuck between his lips. For the second
time he attempted to pick up the rapier-lighter. This time he was
successful. Smoke swirled into his lungs and quieted his nerves. He
squeezed the weapon into the shape of a lighter and put it away.
  
 
  Something, however, was missing—his wallet.
  
 
  The thug had relieved him of it in the second round of the scuffle.
Persistent fellow. Damned persistent.
  
 
  It really didn't matter. He fingered the clip he had taken from the
supposedly dead body. He had intended to turn it over to the police.
Now he might as well keep it to reimburse him for his loss. It
contained more money than his wallet had.
  
 
  Except for the identification tab he always carried in his wallet, it
was more than a fair exchange. The identification, a rectangular piece
of plastic, was useful in establishing credit, but with the money he
now had, he wouldn't need credit. If he did, he could always send for
another tab.
  
 
  A white card fluttered from the clip. He caught it as it fell.
Curiously he examined it. Blank except for one crudely printed word,
STAB. His unknown assailant certainly had tried.
  
