Cassal turned, pressed the stud on the lighter. It should have made him
feel more secure, but it didn't. He could see very little.
  
 
  A dim shadow rushed at him. He jumped away from the water side of the
alley, barely in time. He could feel the rush of air as the assailant
shot by.
  
 
  "Hey!" shouted Cassal.
  
 
  Echoes answered; nothing else did. He had the uncomfortable feeling
that no one was going to come to his assistance.
  
 
  "He wasn't expecting that reaction," explained Dimanche. "That's why he
missed. He's turned around and is coming back."
  
 
  "I'm armed!" shouted Cassal.
  
 
  "That won't stop him. He doesn't believe you."
  
 
  Cassal grasped the lighter. That is, it had been a lighter a few
seconds before. Now a needle-thin blade had snapped out and projected
stiffly. Originally it had been designed as an emergency surgical
instrument. A little imagination and a few changes had altered its
function, converting it into a compact, efficient stiletto.
  
 
  "Twenty feet away," advised Dimanche. "He knows you can't see him, but
he can see your silhouette by the light from the main thoroughfare.
What he doesn't know is that I can detect every move he makes and keep
you posted below the level of his hearing."
  
 
  "Stay on him," growled Cassal nervously. He flattened himself against
the wall.
  
 
  "To the right," whispered Dimanche. "Lunge forward. About five feet.
Low."
  
 
  Sickly, he did so. He didn't care to consider the possible effects of
a miscalculation. In the darkness, how far was five feet? Fortunately,
his estimate was correct. The rapier encountered yielding resistance,
the soggy kind: flesh. The tough blade bent, but did not break. His
opponent gasped and broke away.
  
 
  "Attack!" howled Dimanche against the bone behind his ear. "You've got
him. He can't imagine how you know where he is in the darkness. He's
afraid."
  
 
  Attack he did, slicing about wildly. Some of the thrusts landed; some
didn't. The percentage was low, the total amount high. His opponent
fell to the ground, gasped and was silent.
  
 
  Cassal fumbled in his pockets and flipped on a light. The man lay near
the water side of the alley. One leg was crumpled under him. He didn't
move.
  
 
  "Heartbeat slow," said Dimanche solemnly. "Breathing barely
perceptible."
  
 
  "Then he's not dead," said Cassal in relief.
  
 
  Foam flecked from the still lips and ran down the chin. Blood oozed
from cuts on the face.
  
 
  "Respiration none, heartbeat absent," stated Dimanche.
  
