Obediently, Cassal turned and began walking after the girl. Attractive
in an anthropomorphic, seal-like way, even from behind. Not graceful
out of her element, though.
  
 
  The would-be assassin was still looking at merchandise as Cassal
retraced his steps. A man, or at least man type. A big fellow,
physically quite capable of violence, if size had anything to do with
it. The face, though, was out of character. Mild, almost meek. A
scientist or scholar. It didn't fit with murder.
  
 
  "Nothing," said Dimanche disgustedly. "His mind froze when we got
close. I could feel his shoulderblades twitching as we passed.
Anticipated guilt, of course. Projecting to you the action he plans.
That makes the knife definite."
  
 
  Well beyond the window at which the thug watched and waited, Cassal
stopped. Shakily he produced a cigarette and fumbled for a lighter.
  
 
  "Excellent thinking," commended Dimanche. "He won't attempt anything
on this street. Too dangerous. Turn aside at the next deserted
intersection and let him follow the glow of your cigarette."
  
 
  The lighter flared in his hand. "That's one way of finding out," said
Cassal. "But wouldn't I be a lot safer if I just concentrated on
getting back to the hotel?"
  
 
  "I'm curious. Turn here."
  
 
  "Go to hell," said Cassal nervously. Nevertheless, when he came to that
intersection, he turned there.
  
 
  It was a Godolphian equivalent of an alley, narrow and dark, oily
slow-moving water gurgling at one side, high cavernous walls looming on
the other.
  
 
  He would have to adjust the curiosity factor of Dimanche. It was all
very well to be interested in the man who trailed him, but there was
also the problem of coming out of this adventure alive. Dimanche, an
electronic instrument, naturally wouldn't consider that.
  
 
  "Easy," warned Dimanche. "He's at the entrance to the alley, walking
fast. He's surprised and pleased that you took this route."
  
 
  "I'm surprised, too," remarked Cassal. "But I wouldn't say I'm pleased.
Not just now."
  
 
  "Careful. Even subvocalized conversation is distracting." The mechanism
concealed within his body was silent for an instant and then continued:
"His blood pressure is rising, breathing is faster. At a time like
this, he may be ready to verbalize why he wants to murder you. This is
critical."
  
 
  "That's no lie," agreed Cassal bitterly. The lighter was in his hand.
He clutched it grimly. It was difficult not to look back. The darkness
assumed an even more sinister quality.
  
 
  "Quiet," said Dimanche. "He's verbalizing about you."
  
 
  "He's decided I'm a nice fellow after all. He's going to stop and ask
me for a light."
  
 
  "I don't think so," answered Dimanche. "He's whispering: 'Poor devil. I
hate to do it. But it's really his life or mine'."
  
 
  "He's more right than he knows. Why all this violence, though? Isn't
there any clue?"
  
 
  "None at all," admitted Dimanche. "He's very close. You'd better turn
around."
  
