He blanched. "How long would it take to get there using local
transportation, star-hopping?"
  
 
  "Take my advice: don't try it. Five years, if you're lucky."
  
 
  "I don't need that kind of luck."
  
 
  "I suppose not." She hesitated. "You're determined to go on?" At the
emphatic nod, she sighed. "If that's your decision, we'll try to help
you. To start things moving, we'll need a print of your identification
tab."
  
 
  "There's something funny about her," Dimanche decided. It was the usual
speaking voice of the instrument, no louder than the noise the blood
made in coursing through arteries and veins. Cassal could hear it
plainly, because it was virtually inside his ear.
  
 
  Cassal ignored his private voice. "Identification tab? I don't have it
with me. In fact, I may have lost it."
  
 
  She smiled in instant disbelief. "We're not trying to pry into any
part of your past you may wish concealed. However, it's much easier
for us to help you if you have your identification. Now if you can't
   
   remember
   
  your real name and where you put your identification—" She
arose and left the screen. "Just a moment."
  
 
  He glared uneasily at the spot where the first counselor wasn't. His
   
   real
   
  name!
  
 
  "Relax," Dimanche suggested. "She didn't mean it as a personal insult."
  
 
  Presently she returned.
  
 
  "I have news for you, whoever you are."
  
 
  "Cassal," he said firmly. "Denton Cassal, sales engineer, Earth. If you
don't believe it, send back to—" He stopped. It had taken him four
months to get to Godolph, non-stop, plus a six-month wait on Earth for
a ship to show up that was bound in the right direction. Over distances
such as these, it just wasn't practical to send back to Earth for
anything.
  
 
  "I see you understand." She glanced at the card in her hand. "The
spaceport records indicate that when
   
   Rickrock C
   
  took off this
morning, there was a Denton Cassal on board, bound for Tunney 21."
  
 
  "It wasn't I," he said dazedly. He knew who it was, though. The man who
had tried to kill him last night. The reason for the attack now became
clear. The thug had wanted his identification tab. Worse, he had gotten
it.
  
 
  "No doubt it wasn't," she said wearily. "Outsiders don't seem to
understand what galactic travel entails."
  
 
  Outsiders? Evidently what she called those who lived beyond the second
transfer ring. Were those who lived at the edge of the Galaxy, beyond
the first ring, called Rimmers? Probably.
  
