
  ISH LOOKED up bitterly at the Receptionist. "No," he said.
  
 
  "But
   
   everybody
   
  fills out an application," she protested.
  
 
  "No. I've
   
   got
   
  a job," he said as he had been saying for the last half
hour.
  
 
  The Receptionist sighed. "If you'll
   
   only
   
  read the literature I've
given you, you'll understand that all your previous commitments have
been cancelled."
  
 
  "Look, Honey, I've seen company poop sheets before. Now, let's cut this
nonsense. I've got to get back."
  
 
  "But
   
   nobody
   
  goes back."
  
 
  "Goddam it, I don't know what kind of place this is, but—" He stopped
at the Receptionist's wince, and looked around, his mouth open. The
reception desk was solid enough. There were IN and OUT and HOLD baskets
on the desk, and the Receptionist seemed to see nothing extraordinary
about it. But the room—a big room, he realized—seemed to fade out at
the edges, rather than stop at walls. The lighting, too....
  
 
  "Let's see your back!" he rapped out, his voice high.
  
 
  She sighed in exasperation. "If you'd read the
   
   literature
   
  ..." She
swiveled her chair slowly.
  
 
  "No wings," he said.
  
 
  "Of course not!" she snapped. She brushed her hair away from her
forehead without his telling her to. "No horns, either."
  
 
  "Streamlined, huh?" he said bitterly.
  
 
  "It's a little different for everybody," she said with unexpected
gentleness. "It would have to be, wouldn't it?"
  
 
  "Yeah, I guess so," he admitted slowly. Then he lost his momentary awe,
and his posture grew tense again. He glanced down at his wrist. Six
hours, forty-seven minutes, and no days to go.
  
 
  "Who do I see?"
  
 
  She stared at him, bewildered at the sudden change in his voice. "See?"
  
 
  "About getting out of here! Come on, come on," he barked, snapping his
fingers impatiently. "I haven't got much time."
  
 
  She smiled sweetly. "Oh, but you do."
  
 
  "Can it! Who's your Section boss? Get him down here. On the double. Come
on!" His face was streaming with perspiration but his voice was firm
with the purpose that drove him.
  
 
  Her lips closed into an angry line, and she jabbed a finger at a desk
button. "I'll call the Personnel Manager."
  
 
  "Thanks," he said sarcastically, and waited impatiently. Odd, the way
the Receptionist looked a little like Nan.
  
 
 
