
  "LOOK," HE told the girl, "You got any idea of what it costs to maintain
a racing-plane? Everything I own is tied up in the Foo, my ground crew,
my trailer, and that scrummy old Ryan that should have been salvaged ten
years ago. I
   
   can't
   
  get married. Suppose I crack the Foo next week?
You're dead broke, a widow, and with a funeral to pay for. The only
smart thing to do is wait a while."
  
 
  Nan's eyes clouded, and her lips trembled. "That's what I've been trying
to say.
   
   Why
   
  do you have to win the Vandenberg Cup next week? Why can't
you sell the Foo and go into some kind of business? You're a trained
pilot."
  
 
  He had been standing in front of her with his body unconsciously tense
from the strain of trying to make her understand. Now he
relaxed—more—he slumped—and something began to die in his face, and
the first faint lines crept in to show that after it had died, it would
not return to life, but would fossilize, leaving his features in the
almost unreadable mask that the newspapers would come to know.
  
 
  "I'm a good bit more than a trained pilot," he said quietly. "The Foo Is
a means to an end. After I win the Vandenberg Cup, I can walk into any
plant in the States—Douglas, North American, Boeing—
   
   any
   
  of them—and
pick up the Chief Test Pilot's job for the asking. A few of them have as
good as said so. After that—" His voice had regained some of its former
animation from this new source. Now he broke off, and shrugged. "I've
told you all this before."
  
 
  The girl reached up, as if the physical touch could bring him back to
her, and put her fingers around his wrist. "Darling!" she said. "If it's
that
   
   rocket
   
  pilot business again...."
  
 
  Somehow, his wrist was out of her encircling fingers. "It's always 'that
   
   rocket
   
  pilot business,'" he said, mimicking her voice. "Damn it, I'm
the only trained rocket pilot in the world! I weigh a hundred and
fifteen pounds, I'm five feet tall, and I know more navigation and math
than anybody the Air Force or Navy have! I can use words like
brennschluss and mass-ratio without running over to a copy of
   
   Colliers
   
  , and I—" He stopped himself, half-smiled, and shrugged
again.
  
 
  "I guess I was kidding myself. After the Cup, there'll be the test job,
and after that, there'll be the rockets. You would have had to wait a
long time."
  
 
  All she could think of to say was, "But, Darling, there
   
   aren't
   
  any
man-carrying rockets."
  
 
  "That's not my fault," he said, and walked away from her.
  
 
 
 
  A week later, he took his stripped-down F-110 across the last line with
a scream like that of a hawk that brings its prey safely to its nest.
  
 
 
