
  THE
   
   NAVION
   
  took a boiling thermal under its right wing and bucked
upward suddenly, tilting at the same time, so that the pretty brunette
girl in the other half of the side-by-side was thrown against him. Ish
laughed, a sound that came out of his throat as turbulently as that
sudden gust of heated air had shot up out of the Everglades, and
corrected with a tilt of the wheel.
  
 
  "Relax, Nan," he said, his words colored by the lingering laughter.
"It's only air; nasty old air."
  
 
  The girl patted her short hair back into place. "I wish you wouldn't fly
this low," she said, half-frightened.
  
 
  "
   
   Low?
   
  Call
   
   this
   
  low?" Ish teased. "Here. Let's drop it a little, and
you'll
   
   really
   
  get an idea of how fast we're going." He nudged the
wheel forward, and the
   
   Navion
   
  dipped its nose in a shallow dive,
flattening out thirty feet above the mangrove. The swamp howled with the
chug of the dancing pistons and the claw of the propeller at the
protesting air, and, from the cockpit, the Everglades resolved into a
dirty-green blur that rocketed backward into the slipstream.
  
 
  "Marty!"
  
 
  Ish chuckled again. He couldn't have held the ship down much longer,
anyway. He tugged back on the wheel suddenly, targeting a cumulous bank
with his spinner. His lips peeled back from his teeth, and his jaw set.
The
   
   Navion
   
  went up at the clouds, her engine turning over as fast as
it could, her wings cushioned on the rising thrust of another thermal.
  
 
  And, suddenly, it was as if there were no girl beside him, to be teased,
and no air to rock the wings—there were no wings. His face lost all
expression. Faint beads of sweat broke out above his eyes and under his
nose. "Up," he grunted through his clenched teeth. His fists locked on
the wheel. "Up!"
  
 
  The
   
   Navion
   
  broke through the cloud, kept going. "Up." If he listened
closely, in just the right way, he could almost hear ...
  
 
  "Marty!"
  
 
  ... the rumble of a louder, prouder engine than the Earth had ever known.
He sighed, the breath whispering through his parting teeth, and the
aircraft leveled off as he pushed at the wheel with suddenly lax hands.
Still half-lost, he turned and looked at the white-faced girl. "Scare
you—?" he asked gently.
  
 
  She nodded. Her fingertips were trembling on his forearm.
  
 
  "Me too," he said. "Lost my head. Sorry."
  
 
 
