
  THE SMALL young man looked at his father, and shook his head.
  
 
  "But you've
   
   got
   
  to learn a trade," his father said, exasperated. "I
can't afford to send you to college; you know that."
  
 
  "I've got a trade," he answered.
  
 
  His father smiled thinly. "What?" he asked patronizingly.
  
 
  "I'm a rocket pilot," the boy said, his thin jaw stretching the skin of
his cheeks.
  
 
  His father laughed in the way the boy had learned to anticipate and
hate. "Yeah," he said. He leaned back in his chair and laughed so hard
that the Sunday paper slipped off his wide lap and fell to the floor
with an unnoticed stiff rustle.
  
 
  "A
   
   rocket
   
  pilot!" His father's derision hooted through the quiet
parlor. "A ro—
   
   oh, no!
   
  —a rocket
   
   pilot
   
  !"
  
 
  The boy stared silently at the convulsed figure in the chair. His lips
fell into a set white bar, and the corners of his jaws bulged with the
tension in their muscles. Suddenly, he turned on his heel and stalked
out of the parlor, through the hall, out the front door, to the porch.
He stopped there, hesitating a little.
  
 
  "
   
   Marty!
   
  " His father's shout followed him out of the parlor. It seemed
to act like a hand between the shoulder-blades, because the boy almost
ran as he got down the porch stairs.
  
 
  "What is it, Howard?" Marty's mother asked in a worried voice as she
came in from the kitchen, her damp hands rubbing themselves dry against
the sides of her housedress.
  
 
  "Crazy kid," Howard Isherwood muttered. He stared at the figure of his
son as the boy reached the end of the walk and turned off into the
street. "
   
   Come back here!
   
  " he shouted. "A
   
   rocket
   
  pilot," he cursed
under his breath. "What's the kid been reading? Claiming he's a rocket
pilot!"
  
 
  Margaret Isherwood's brow furrowed into a faint, bewildered frown.
"But—isn't he a little young? I know they're teaching some very odd
things in high schools these days, but it seems to me...."
  
 
  "Oh, for Pete's sake, Marge, there aren't even any rockets yet!
   
   Come
back here, you idiot!
   
  " Howard Isherwood was standing on his porch, his
clenched fists trembling at the ends of his stiffly-held arms.
  
 
  "Are you sure, Howard?" his wife asked faintly.
  
 
  "Yes, I'm
   
   sure
   
  !"
  
 
  "But, where's he going?"
  
 
  "
   
   Stop that! Get off that bus! YOU hear me?
   
  Marty?"
  
 
  "
   
   Howard!
   
  Stop acting like a child and
   
   talk
   
  to me! Where is that boy
going?"
  
 
  Howard Isherwood, stocky, red-faced, forty-seven, and defeated, turned
away from the retreating bus and looked at his wife. "I don't know," he
told her bitterly, between rushes of air into his jerkily heaving lungs.
"Maybe, the moon," he told her sarcastically.
  
 
 
 
  Martin Isherwood, rocket pilot, weight 102, height 4', 11", had come of
age at seventeen.
  
 
 
