  Doctor Universe
  
 
  By CARL JACOBI
  
 
  Grannie Annie, who wrote science fiction
   
  under the nom de plume of Annabella C. Flowers,
   
  had stumbled onto a murderous plot more
   
  hair-raising than any she had ever concocted.
   
  And the danger from the villain of the piece
   
  didn't worry her—I was the guy he was shooting at.
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Planet Stories Fall 1944.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  I was killing an hour in the billiard room of the
   
   Spacemen's Club
   
  in Swamp City when the Venusian bellboy came and tapped me on the
shoulder.
  
 
  "Beg pardon, thir," he said with his racial lisp, "thereth thome one to
thee you in the main lounge." His eyes rolled as he added, "A lady!"
  
 
  A woman here...! The
   
   Spacemen's
   
  was a sanctuary, a rest club where
in-coming pilots and crewmen could relax before leaving for another
voyage. The rule that no females could pass its portals was strictly
enforced.
  
 
  I followed the bellhop down the long corridor that led to the main
lounge. At the threshold I jerked to a halt and stared incredulously.
  
 
  Grannie Annie!
  
 
  There she stood before a frantically gesticulating desk clerk, leaning
on her faded green umbrella. A little wisp of a woman clad in a
voluminous black dress with one of those doily-like caps on her head,
tied by a ribbon under her chin. Her high-topped button shoes were
planted firmly on the varpla carpet and her wrinkled face was set in
calm defiance.
  
 
  I barged across the lounge and seized her hand. "Grannie Annie! I
haven't seen you in two years."
  
 
  "Hi, Billy-boy," she greeted calmly. "Will you please tell this
fish-face to shut up."
  
 
  The desk clerk went white. "Mithter Trenwith, if thith lady ith a
friend of yourth, you'll have to take her away. It'th abtholutely
againth the ruleth...."
  
 
  "Okay, okay," I grinned. "Look, we'll go into the grille. There's no
one there at this hour."
  
 
  In the grille an equally astonished waiter served us—me a lime rickey
and Grannie Annie her usual whisky sour—I waited until she had tossed
the drink off at a gulp before I set off a chain of questions:
  
 
  "What the devil are you doing on Venus? Don't you know women aren't
allowed in the
   
   Spacemen's
   
  ? What happened to the book you were
writing?"
  
 
  "Hold it, Billy-boy." Laughingly she threw up both hands. "Sure, I knew
this place had some antiquated laws. Pure fiddle-faddle, that's what
they are. Anyway, I've been thrown out of better places."
  
 
  She hadn't changed. To her publishers and her readers she might be
Annabella C. Flowers, author of a long list of science fiction novels.
But to me she was still Grannie Annie, as old-fashioned as last year's
hat, as modern as an atomic motor. She had probably written more drivel
in the name of science fiction than anyone alive.
  
 
  But the public loved it. They ate up her stories, and they clamored for
more. Her annual income totaled into six figures, and her publishers
sat back and massaged their digits, watching their earnings mount.
  
 
  One thing you had to admit about her books. They may have been dime
novels, but they weren't synthetic. If Annabella C. Flowers wrote a
novel, and the locale was the desert of Mars, she packed her carpet bag
and hopped a liner for Craterville. If she cooked up a feud between two
expeditions on Callisto, she went to Callisto.
  
 
  She was the most completely delightful crackpot I had ever known.
  
 
  "What happened to
   
   Guns for Ganymede
   
  ?" I asked. "That was the title of
your last, wasn't it?"
  
