It was a weird situation, Syme thought. His mind was racing, but as yet
he could see no way out. He began to wonder, if he did, could he keep
the Martians from knowing about it? Then he realized that the Martian
must have received that thought, too, and he was enraged. He stood,
holding himself in check with an effort.
  
 
  "Will you tell us why?" Tate asked.
  
 
  "You were brought here for that purpose. It is part of our conception
of justice. I will tell you and your—friend—anything you wish to
know."
  
 
  Syme noticed that the other Martians had retired to the farther side of
the cavern. Some were munching the glowing fungus. That left only the
leader, who was standing alertly on all fours a short distance away
from them, holding the Benson gun trained on them. Syme tried not to
think about the gun, especially about making a grab for it. It was like
trying not to think of the word "hippopotamus."
  
 
  Tate squatted down comfortably on the floor of the cavern, apparently
unconcerned, but his hands were trembling slightly. "First why—" he
began.
  
 
  "There are many secrets in Kal-Jmar," the Martian said, "among them a
very simple catalyzing agent which could within fifty years transform
Mars to a planet with Terrestrially-thick atmosphere."
  
 
  "I think I see," Tate said thoughtfully. "That's been the ultimate aim
all along, but so far the problem has us licked. If we solved it, then
we'd have all of Mars, not just the cities. Your people would die out.
You couldn't have that, of course."
  
 
  He sighed deeply. He spread his gloved hands before him and looked
at them with a queer intentness. "Well—how about the Martians—the
Kal-Jmar Martians, I mean? I'd dearly love to know the answer to that
one."
  
 
  "Neither of the alternatives in your mind is correct. They were not a
separate species, although they were unlike us. But they were not our
ancestors, either. They were the contemporaries of our ancestors."
  
 
  "Several thousand years ago Mars' loss of atmosphere began to make
itself felt. There were two ways out. Some chose to seal themselves
into cities like Kal-Jmar; our ancestors chose to adapt their bodies to
the new conditions. Thus the race split. Their answer to the problem
was an evasion; they remained static. Our answer was the true one, for
we progressed. We progressed beyond the need of science; they remained
its slaves. They died of a plague—and other causes.
  
 
  "You see," he finished gently, "our deception has caused a natural
confusion in your minds. They were the degenerates, not we."
  
 
  "And yet," Tate mused, "you are being destroyed by contact with
an—inferior—culture."
  
 
  "We hope to win yet," the Martian said.
  
 
  Tate stood up, his face very white. "Tell me one thing," he begged.
"Will our two races ever live together in amity?"
  
 
  The Martian lowered his head. "That is for unborn generations." He
looked at Tate again and aimed the energy gun. "You are a brave man,"
he said. "I am sorry."
  
 
  Syme saw all his hopes of treasure and glory go glimmering down the
sights of the Martian's Benson gun, and suddenly the pent-up rage in
him exploded. Too swiftly for his intention to be telegraphed, before
he knew himself what he meant to do, he hurled himself bodily into the
Martian.
  
