The towers of dead Kal-Jmar loomed over him in the dusk as he strode
like a conqueror down the long-deserted avenue. The city was full of
the whisperings of Kal-Jmar's ancient wraiths, but they touched only
a corner of his mind. He was filled to overflowing with the bright,
glowing joy of conquest. The city was his!
  
 
  His boots trod an avenue where no foot had fallen these untold eons,
yet there was no dust. The city was bright and furbished waiting for
him. He was intoxicated.
   
   The city was his!
   
 
 
  There was a gentle ramp leading upward, and Syme followed it, breathing
in the manufactured air of his pressure suit like wine. All around him,
the city blazed with treasures beyond price.
  
 
 
   It was his!
   
 
 
  The ramp led to a portal set in the side of a shining needle of a
building. Syme strode up to the threshold, and the door dilated for
him. He stepped inside; the door closed and a soft light glowed on.
  
 
  There was air here: good, breathable air. A tiny zephyr of it was
blowing from some hidden source against his body. Greatly daring, he
unfastened the helmet of his suit and flung it back. He breathed in a
lungful of it. God, but it was good after that canned stuff! It was a
little heady; it made his head swim—but it was good air, excellent air!
  
 
  He looked around him, measuring, assessing for the first time. This
room alone was worth a fortune. There was platinum; in ornaments, set
into the walls, in furniture. That would be enough to buy the little
things—a new ship, or perhaps even immunity back on Earth. But that
was as nothing to the rest of it, the things three worlds would clamor
for—the artifacts, the record books, the machines!
  
 
  He strode about the room, building plan on grandiose plan. He could
take back only a little with him at first; but he could return again
and again, with Tate's mechanism and new batteries. But he'd explore
the city thoroughly before he left. Somewhere there must be weapons. An
invincible weapon, perhaps, that a man could carry in his hand. Perhaps
even a perfect body screen. With that he wouldn't have to steal away
from Mars on a freighter, hiding his loot and his greatness in a dingy
engine room. He could walk into a Triplanet ship and order its captain
to take him wherever he chose to go!
  
