  Doorway to Kal-Jmar
  
 
  By Stuart Fleming
  
 
  Two men had died before Syme Rector's guns
   
  to give him the key to the ancient city of
   
  Kal-Jmar—a city of untold wealth, and of
   
  robots that made desires instant commands.
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Planet Stories Winter 1944.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  The tall man loitered a moment before a garish window display, his eyes
impassive in his space-burned face, as the Lillis patrolman passed.
Then he turned, burying his long chin in the folds of his sand cape,
and took up the pursuit of the dark figure ahead once more.
  
 
  Above, the city's multicolored lights were reflected from the
translucent Dome—a distant, subtly distorted Lillis, through which the
stars shone dimly.
  
 
  Getting through that dome had been his first urgent problem, but now he
had another, and a more pressing one. It had been simple enough to pass
himself off as an itinerant prospector and gain entrance to the city,
after his ship had crashed in the Mare Cimmerium. But the rest would
not be so simple. He had to acquire a spaceman's identity card, and he
had to do it fast. It was only a matter of time until the Triplanet
Patrol gave up the misleading trail he had made into the hill country,
and concluded that he must have reached Lillis. After that, his only
safety lay in shipping out on a freighter as soon as possible. He had
to get off Mars, because his trail was warm, and the Patrol thorough.
  
 
  They knew, of course, that he was an outlaw—the very fact of the
crashed, illegally-armed ship would have told them that. But they
didn't know that he was Syme Rector, the most-wanted and most-feared
raider in the System. In that was his only advantage.
  
 
  He walked a little faster, as his quarry turned up a side street and
then boarded a moving ramp to an upper level. He watched until the
short, wide-shouldered figure in spaceman's harness disappeared over
the top of the ramp, and then followed.
  
 
  The man was waiting for him at the mouth of the ascending tunnel.
  
 
  Syme looked at him casually, without a flicker of expression, and
started to walk on, but the other stepped into his path. He was quite
young, Syme saw, with a fighter's shoulders under the white leather,
and a hard, determined thrust to his firm jaw.
  
 
  "All right," the boy said quietly. "What is it?"
  
 
  "I don't understand," Syme said.
  
 
  "The game, the angle. You've been following me. Do you want trouble?"
  
 
  "Why, no," Syme told him bewilderedly. "I haven't been following you.
I—"
  
 
  The boy knuckled his chin reflectively. "You could be lying," he said
finally. "But maybe I've made a mistake." Then—"Okay, citizen, you can
clear—but don't let me catch you on my tail again."
  
 
  Syme murmured something and turned away, feeling the spaceman's eyes
on the small of his back until he turned the corner. At the next
street he took a ramp up, crossed over and came down on the other side
a block away. He waited until he saw the boy's broad figure pass the
intersection, and then followed again more cautiously.
  
 
  It was risky, but there was no other way. The signatures, the data,
even the photograph on the card could be forged once Syme got his hands
on it, but the identity card itself—that oblong of dark diamondite,
glowing with the tiny fires of radioactivity—that could not be
imitated, and the only way to get it was to kill.
  
 
  Up ahead was the Founders' Tower, the tallest building in Lillis. The
boy strode into the entrance lobby, bought a ticket for the observation
platform, and took the elevator. As soon as his car was out of sight in
the transparent tube, Syme followed. He put a half-credit slug into the
machine, took the punctured slip of plastic that came out. The ticket
went into a scanning slot in the wall of the car, and the elevator
whisked him up.
  
