They started off down the canyon, Syme urging the slighter man to
a fast clip, even though his leg was already stiffening. When they
finally reached a climbable spot, Syme was limping badly and Tate was
obviously exhausted.
  
 
  They clambered wearily out onto the level sands again just as the
small, blazing sun was setting. "Luck," grunted Syme. "Our only chance
of getting near the city is at night." He peered around, shading his
eyes from the sun's glare with a gauntleted hand. "See that?"
  
 
  Following his pointing finger, Tate saw a faint, ephemeral arc showing
above a line of low hills in the distance. "Kal-Jmar," said Syme.
  
 
  Tate brightened a little. His body was too filled with fatigue for his
mind to do any work on the problem that was baffling him, and so it
receded into the back of his mind.
  
 
  "Kal-Jmar," whispered Syme again.
  
 
  There was no twilight. The sun dropped abruptly behind the low horizon,
and darkness fell, sudden and absolute. Syme picked up the extra oxygen
tank and the suitcase, checked his direction by a wrist compass, and
started toward the hills. Tate rose wearily to his feet and followed
again.
  
 
  Two hours later, Kal-Jmar stood before them. They had wormed their
way past the sentry posts, doing most of the last two hundred meters
on all fours. With skill and luck, and with Syme's fierce, burning
determination, they had managed to escape detection—and there they
were. Journey's end.
  
 
  Tate stared up at the shining, starlight towers in speechless
admiration. If the people who had built this city had been decadent,
still their architecture was magnificent. The city was a rhapsody made
solid. There was a sense of decay about it, he thought, but it was the
decay of supreme beauty, caught at the very verge of dissolution and
preserved for all eternity.
  
 
  "Well?" demanded Syme.
  
 
  Tate started, shaken out of his dream. He looked down at the black
suitcase, a little wonderingly, and then pulled it to him and opened it.
  
 
  Inside, carefully wrapped in shock-absorbing tissue, was a fragile
contrivance of many tubes and wires, and a tiny parabolic mirror. It
had a brand new Elecorp 210 volt battery, and it needed every volt of
that tremendous power. Tate made the connections, his hands trembling
slightly, and set it up on a telescoping tripod. Syme watched him
closely, his big body tensed with expectation.
  
 
  The field was before them, shimmering faintly in the starlight. It
looked unsubstantial as the stuff of dreams, but both men knew that no
power man possessed, unless it was the thing Tate held, could penetrate
that screen.
  
 
  Tate set the mechanism up close to the field, aimed it very delicately,
and closed a minute switch. After a long second, he opened it again.
  
 
  Nothing happened.
  
 
  The screen was still there, as unsubstantial and as solid as ever.
There was no change.
  
