"Come on," Syme said grimly. He rose and reached for a pressure suit,
and Tate followed him.
  
 
  "What do you think they'll—" he began, and then stopped himself. "I
know. They're unpredictable."
  
 
  "Yeah," said Syme, and opened the door. The air in the car
   
   whooshed
   
  into the near-vacuum outside, and he and Tate stepped out.
  
 
  The Martian leader looked at them enigmatically, then turned and
started off. The other natives closed in on them, and they all bounded
along under the weak gravity.
  
 
  They bounded along for what Syme figured as a good kilometer and a
half, and they then reached a branch in the gully and turned down
it, going lower all the time. Under the light of their helmet lamps,
they could see the walls of the gully—a tunnel, now—getting darker
and more solid. Finally, when Syme estimated they were about nine
kilometers down, there was even a suggestion of moisture.
  
 
  The tunnel debouched at last into a large cavern. There was a
phosphorescent gleam from fungus along the walls, but Syme couldn't
decide how far away the far wall was. He noticed something else, though.
  
 
  "There's air here," he said to Tate. "I can see dust motes in it." He
switched his helmet microphone from radio over to the audio membrane
on the outside of the helmet. "
   
   Kalis methra
   
  ," he began haltingly,
"
   
   seltin guna getal.
   
  "
  
 
  "Yes, there is air here," said the Martian leader, startlingly. "Not
enough for your use, however, so do not open your helmets."
  
 
  Syme swore amazedly.
  
 
  "I thought you said they didn't speak Terrestrial," Tate said. Syme
ignored him.
  
 
  "We had our reasons for not doing so," the Martian said.
  
 
  "But how—?"
  
 
  "We are telepaths, of course. On a planet which is nearly airless on
its surface, we have to be. A tendency of the Terrestrial mind is to
ignore the obvious. We have not had a spoken language of our own for
several thousand years."
  
 
  He darted a glance at Syme's darkly scowling face. His own hairy face
was expressionless, but Syme sensed that he was amused. "Yes, you're
right," he said. "The language you and your fellows struggled to learn
is a fraud, a hodge-podge concocted to deceive you."
  
 
  Tate looked interested. "But why this—this gigantic masquerade?"
  
 
  "You had nothing to give us," the Martian said simply.
  
 
  Tate frowned, then flushed. "You mean you avoided revealing yourselves
because you—had nothing to gain from mental intercourse with us?"
  
 
  "Yes."
  
 
  Tate thought again. "But—"
  
 
  "No," the Martian interrupted him, "revealing the extent of our
civilization would have spared us nothing at your people's hands. Yours
is an imperialist culture, and you would have had Mars, whether you
thought you were taking it from equals or not."
  
 
  "Never mind that," Syme broke in impatiently. "What do you want with
us?"
  
 
  The Martian looked at him appraisingly. "You already suspect.
Unfortunately, you must die."
  
