  DOUBLECROSS
  
 
  by JAMES Mac CREIGH
  
 
  Revolt was brewing on Venus, led by the
   
  descendant of the first Earthmen to
   
  land. Svan was the leader making the final
   
  plans—plotting them a bit too well.
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Planet Stories Winter 1944.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  The Officer of the Deck was pleased as he returned to the main lock.
There was no reason why everything shouldn't have been functioning
perfectly, of course, but he was pleased to have it confirmed, all the
same. The Executive Officer was moodily smoking a cigarette in the open
lock, staring out over the dank Venusian terrain at the native town. He
turned.
  
 
  "Everything shipshape, I take it!" he commented.
  
 
  The OD nodded. "I'll have a blank log if this keeps up," he said.
"Every man accounted for except the delegation, cargo stowed, drivers
ready to lift as soon as they come back."
  
 
  The Exec tossed away his cigarette. "
   
   If
   
  they come back."
  
 
  "Is there any question?"
  
 
  The Exec shrugged. "I don't know, Lowry," he said. "This is a funny
place. I don't trust the natives."
  
 
  Lowry lifted his eyebrows. "Oh? But after all, they're human beings,
just like us—"
  
 
  "Not any more. Four or five generations ago they were. Lord, they don't
even look human any more. Those white, flabby skins—I don't like them."
  
 
  "Acclimation," Lowry said scientifically. "They had to acclimate
themselves to Venus's climate. They're friendly enough."
  
 
  The Exec shrugged again. He stared at the wooden shacks that were the
outskirts of the native city, dimly visible through the ever-present
Venusian mist. The native guard of honor, posted a hundred yards from
the Earth-ship, stood stolidly at attention with their old-fashioned
proton-rifles slung over their backs. A few natives were gazing
wonderingly at the great ship, but made no move to pass the line of
guards.
  
 
  "Of course," Lowry said suddenly, "there's a minority who are afraid
of us. I was in town yesterday, and I talked with some of the natives.
They think there will be hordes of immigrants from Earth, now that we
know Venus is habitable. And there's some sort of a paltry underground
group that is spreading the word that the immigrants will drive the
native Venusians—the descendants of the first expedition, that
is—right down into the mud. Well—" he laughed—"maybe they will.
After all, the fittest survive. That's a basic law of—"
  
 
  The annunciator over the open lock clanged vigorously, and a metallic
voice rasped: "Officer of the Deck! Post Number One! Instruments
reports a spy ray focused on the main lock!"
  
 
  Lowry, interrupted in the middle of a word, jerked his head back and
stared unbelievingly at the tell-tale next to the annunciator. Sure
enough, it was glowing red—might have been glowing for minutes. He
snatched at the hand-phone dangling from the wall, shouted into it.
"Set up a screen! Notify the delegation! Alert a landing party!" But
even while he was giving orders, the warning light flickered suddenly
and went out. Stricken, Lowry turned to the Exec.
  
 
  The Executive Officer nodded gloomily. He said, "You see!"
  
