We'd come in from the west over the ocean, so I traveled east on the
road. That much water makes me nervous, and roads have to go somewhere.
  
 
  I came on my first travelers three hours later. I rounded a tree-lined
bend, ducking an overhanging branch, and pulled Ninc to a stop. There
were five men on horseback herding a bunch of the ugliest creatures
alive.
  
 
  They were green and grotesque. They had squat bodies, long limbs and
knobby bulges at their joints. They had square, flat animal masks for
faces. But they walked on their hind legs and they had paws that were
almost hands, and that was enough to make them seem almost human. They
made a wordless, chilling, lowing sound as they milled and plodded
along.
  
 
  I started Ninc up again and moved slowly to catch up with them. All the
men on horseback had guns in saddle boots. They looked as nervous as
cats with kittens. One of them had a string of packhorses on a line
and he saw me and called to another who seemed to be the leader. That
one wheeled his black horse and rode back toward me.
  
 
  He was a middle-aged man, maybe as old as my Daddy. He was large and he
had a hard face. Normal enough, but hard. He pulled to a halt when we
reached each other, but I kept going. He had to come around and follow
me. I believe in judging a person by his face. A man can't help the
face he owns, but he can help the expression he wears on it. If a man
looks mean, I generally believe that he is. This one looked mean. That
was why I kept riding.
  
 
  He said, "What be you doing out here, boy? Be you out of your head?
There be escaped Losels in these woods."
  
 
  I told you I hadn't finished filling out yet, but I hadn't thought it
was that bad. I wasn't ready to make a fight over the point, though.
Generally, I can't keep my bloody mouth shut, but now I didn't say
anything. It seemed smart.
  
 
  "Where be you from?" he asked.
  
 
  I pointed to the road behind us.
  
 
  "And where be you going?"
  
 
  I pointed ahead. No other way to go.
  
 
  He seemed exasperated. I have that effect sometimes. Even on Mother and
Daddy, who should know better.
  
 
  We were coming up on the others now, and the man said, "Maybe you'd
better ride on from here with us. For protection."
  
 
  He had an odd way of twisting his sounds, almost as though he had a
mouthful of mush. I wondered whether he were just an oddball or whether
everybody here spoke the same way. I'd never heard International
English spoken any way but one, even on the planet Daddy made me visit
with him.
  
 
  One of the other outriders came easing by then. I suppose they'd been
watching us all the while. He called to the hard man.
  
 
  "He be awfully small, Horst. I doubt me a Losel'd even notice him at
all. We mought as well throw him back again."
  
 
  The rider looked at me. When I didn't dissolve in terror as he
expected, he shrugged and one of the other men laughed.
  
 
  The hard man said to the others, "This boy will be riding along with us
to Forton for protection."
  
 
  I looked down at the plodding, unhappy creatures they were driving
along and one looked back at me with dull, expressionless golden eyes.
I felt uncomfortable.
  
 
  I said, "I don't think so."
  
 
  What the man did then surprised me. He said, "I do think so," and
reached for the rifle in his saddle boot.
  
 
  I whipped my sonic pistol out so fast that he was caught leaning over
with the rifle half out. His jaw dropped. He knew what I held and he
didn't want to be fried.
  
 
  I said, "Ease your rifles out and drop them gently to the ground."
  
 
  They did, watching me all the while with wary expressions.
  
 
  When all the rifles were on the ground, I said, "All right, let's go."
  
 
  They didn't want to move. They didn't want to leave the rifles. I
could see that. Horst didn't say anything. He just watched me with
narrowed eyes. But one of the others held up a hand and in wheedling
tones said, "Look here, kid...."
  
 
  "Shut up," I said, in as mean a voice as I could muster, and he did. It
surprised me. I didn't think I sounded
   
   that
   
  mean. I decided he just
didn't trust the crazy kid not to shoot.
  
 
  After twenty minutes of easy riding for us and hard walking for the
creatures, I said, "If you want your rifles, you can go back and get
them now." I dug my heels into Ninc's sides and rode on. At the next
bend I looked back and saw four of them holding their packhorses and
the creatures still while one beat a dust-raising retreat down the road.
  
 
  I put this episode in the "file and hold for analysis" section in my
mind and rode on, feeling good. I think I even giggled once. Sometimes
I even convince myself that I'm hell on wheels.
  
 
 
  III
  
 
  When I was nine, my Daddy gave me a painted wooden doll that my
great-grandmother brought from Earth. The thing is that inside it,
nestled one in another, are eleven more dolls, each one smaller than
the last. I like to watch people when they open it for the first time.
  
 
  My face must have been like that as I rode along the road.
  
 
  The country leveled into a great rolling valley and the trees gave
way to great farms and fields. In the fields, working, were some of
the green creatures, which surprised me since the ones I'd seen before
hadn't seemed smart enough to count to one, let alone do any work.
  
 
  But it relieved me. I thought they might have been eating them or
something.
  
 
  I passed two crossroads and started to meet more people, but nobody
questioned me. I met people on horseback, and twice I met trucks moving
silently past. And I overtook a wagon driven by the oldest man I've
seen in my life. He waved to me, and I waved back.
  
 
  Near the end of the afternoon I came to the town, and there I received
a jolt that sickened me.
  
 
  By the time I came out on the other side, I was sick. My hands were
cold and sweaty and my head was spinning, and I wanted to kick Ninc to
a gallop.
  
 
  I rode slowly in, looking all around, missing nothing. The town was all
stone, wood and brick. Out of date. Out of time, really. There were
no machines more complicated than the trucks I'd seen earlier. At the
edge of town, I passed a newspaper office with a headline pasted in the
window—INVASION! I remember that. I wondered about it.
  
 
  But I looked most closely at the people. In all that town, I didn't
see one girl over ten years old and no grown-up women at all. There
were little kids, there were boys and there were men, but no girls. All
the boys and men wore pants, and so did I, which must have been why
Horst and his buddies assumed I was a boy. It wasn't flattering; but
I decided I'd not tell anybody different until I found what made the
clocks tick on this planet.
  
 
  But that wasn't what bothered me. It was the kids. My God! They
swarmed. I saw a family come out of a house—a father and
   
   four
   
  children. It was the most foul thing I've ever seen. It struck me
then—these people were Free Birthers! I felt a wave of nausea and I
closed my eyes until it passed.
  
