 
  DR. KOMETEVSKY'S DAY
  
 
  By FRITZ LEIBER
  
 
  Illustrated by DAVID STONE
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Galaxy Science Fiction February 1952.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
 
 
   Before science, there was superstition. After
    
   science, there will be ... what? The biggest,
    
   most staggering
   
  , most final
   
   fact of them all!
   
 
 
 
  "But it's all predicted here! It even names this century for the next
reshuffling of the planets."
  
 
  Celeste Wolver looked up unwillingly at the book her friend Madge
Carnap held aloft like a torch. She made out the ill-stamped title,
   
   The Dance of the Planets
   
  . There was no mistaking the time of
its origin; only paper from the Twentieth Century aged to that
particularly nasty shade of brown. Indeed, the book seemed to Celeste
a brown old witch resurrected from the Last Age of Madness to confound
a world growing sane, and she couldn't help shrinking back a trifle
toward her husband Theodor.
  
 
  He tried to come to her rescue. "Only predicted in the vaguest way. As
I understand it, Kometevsky claimed, on the basis of a lot of evidence
drawn from folklore, that the planets and their moons trade positions
every so often."
  
 
  "As if they were playing Going to Jerusalem, or musical chairs,"
Celeste chimed in, but she couldn't make it sound funny.
  
 
  "Jupiter was supposed to have started as the outermost planet, and is
to end up in the orbit of Mercury," Theodor continued. "Well, nothing
at all like that has happened."
  
 
  "But it's begun," Madge said with conviction. "Phobos and Deimos have
disappeared. You can't argue away that stubborn little fact."
  
 
  That was the trouble; you couldn't. Mars' two tiny moons had simply
vanished during a period when, as was generally the case, the eyes
of astronomy weren't on them. Just some hundred-odd cubic miles of
rock—the merest cosmic flyspecks—yet they had carried away with them
the security of a whole world.
  
