As Celeste and Theodor entered the committee room, Rosalind Wolver—a
glitter of platinum against darkness—came in through the opposite
door and softly shut it behind her. Frieda, a fair woman in blue robes,
got up from the round table.
  
 
  Celeste turned away with outward casualness as Theodor kissed his two
other wives. She was pleased to note that Edmund seemed impatient too.
A figure in close-fitting black, unrelieved except for two red arrows
at the collar, he struck her as embodying very properly the serious,
fateful temper of the moment.
  
 
  He took two briefcases from his vest pocket and tossed them down on the
table beside one of the microfilm projectors.
  
 
  "I suggest we get started without waiting for Ivan," he said.
  
 
  Frieda frowned anxiously. "It's ten minutes since he phoned from the
Deep Space Bar to say he was starting right away. And that's hardly a
two minutes walk."
  
 
  Rosalind instantly started toward the outside door.
  
 
  "I'll check," she explained. "Oh, Frieda, I've set the mike so you'll
hear if Dotty calls."
  
 
  Edmund threw up his hands. "Very well, then," he said and walked over,
switched on the picture and stared out moodily.
  
 
  Theodor and Frieda got out their briefcases, switched on projectors,
and began silently checking through their material.
  
 
  Celeste fiddled with the TV and got a newscast. But she found her eyes
didn't want to absorb the blocks of print that rather swiftly succeeded
each other, so, after a few moments, she shrugged impatiently and
switched to audio.
  
 
  At the noise, the others looked around at her with surprise and some
irritation, but in a few moments they were also listening.
  
 
  "The two rocket ships sent out from Mars Base to explore the orbital
positions of Phobos and Deimos—that is, the volume of space they'd be
occupying if their positions had remained normal—report finding masses
of dust and larger debris. The two masses of fine debris are moving
in the same orbits and at the same velocities as the two vanished
moons, and occupy roughly the same volumes of space, though the mass
of material is hardly a hundredth that of the moons. Physicists have
ventured no statements as to whether this constitutes a confirmation of
the Disintegration Hypothesis.
  
 
  "However, we're mighty pleased at this news here. There's a marked
lessening of tension. The finding of the debris—solid, tangible
stuff—seems to lift the whole affair out of the supernatural miasma in
which some of us have been tempted to plunge it. One-hundredth of the
moons has been found.
  
 
  "The rest will also be!"
  
 
  Edmund had turned his back on the window. Frieda and Theodor had
switched off their projectors.
  
 
  "Meanwhile, Earthlings are going about their business with a minimum
of commotion, meeting with considerable calm the strange threat to
the fabric of their Solar System. Many, of course, are assembled in
churches and humanist temples. Kometevskyites have staged helicopter
processions at Washington, Peking, Pretoria, and Christiana, demanding
that instant preparations be made for—and I quote—'Earth's coming
leap through space.' They have also formally challenged all astronomers
to produce an explanation other than the one contained in that strange
book so recently conjured from oblivion,
   
   The Dance of the Planets
   
  .
  
 
  "That about winds up the story for the present. There are no new
reports from Interplanetary Radar, Astronomy, or the other rocket ships
searching in the extended Mars volume. Nor have any statements been
issued by the various groups working on the problem in Astrophysics,
Cosmic Ecology, the Congress for the Discovery of New Purposes, and so
forth. Meanwhile, however, we can take courage from the words of a poem
written even before Dr. Kometevsky's book:
  
 "This Earth is not the steadfast place
 We landsmen build upon;
 From deep to deep she varies pace,
 And while she comes is gone.
 Beneath my feet I feel
 Her smooth bulk heave and dip;
 With velvet plunge and soft upreel
 She swings and steadies to her keel
 Like a gallant, gallant ship."
 