Looking at the lovely garden landscape around her, Celeste Wolver felt
that in a moment the shrubby hills would begin to roll like waves, the
charmingly aimless paths twist like snakes and sink in the green sea,
the sparsely placed skyscrapers dissolve into the misty clouds they
pierced.
  
 
 
   People must have felt like this
   
  , she thought,
   
   when Aristarches first
hinted and Copernicus told them that the solid Earth under their feet
was falling dizzily through space. Only it's worse for us, because they
couldn't see that anything had changed. We can.
   
 
 
  "You need something to cling to," she heard Madge say. "Dr. Kometevsky
was the only person who ever had an inkling that anything like this
might happen. I was never a Kometevskyite before. Hadn't even heard of
the man."
  
 
  She said it almost apologetically. In fact, standing there so frank and
anxious-eyed, Madge looked anything but a fanatic, which made it much
worse.
  
 
  "Of course, there are several more convincing alternate
explanations...." Theodor began hesitantly, knowing very well that
there weren't. If Phobos and Deimos had suddenly disintegrated,
surely Mars Base would have noticed something. Of course there was the
Disordered Space Hypothesis, even if it was little more than the chance
phrase of a prominent physicist pounded upon by an eager journalist.
And in any case, what sense of security were you left with if you
admitted that moons and planets might explode, or drop through unseen
holes in space? So he ended up by taking a different tack: "Besides, if
Phobos and Deimos simply shot off somewhere, surely they'd have been
picked up by now by 'scope or radar."
  
 
  "Two balls of rock just a few miles in diameter?" Madge questioned.
"Aren't they smaller than many of the asteroids? I'm no astronomer, but
I think' I'm right."
  
 
  And of course she was.
  
 
  She swung the book under her arm. "Whew, it's heavy," she observed,
adding in slightly scandalized tones, "Never been microfilmed." She
smiled nervously and looked them up and down. "Going to a party?" she
asked.
  
 
  Theodor's scarlet cloak and Celeste's green culottes and silver jacket
justified the question, but they shook their heads.
  
 
  "Just the normally flamboyant garb of the family," Celeste said,
while Theodor explained, "As it happens, we're bound on business
connected with the disappearance. We Wolvers practically constitute
a sub-committee of the Congress for the Discovery of New Purposes.
And since a lot of varied material comes to our attention, we're
going to see if any of it correlates with this bit of astronomical
sleight-of-hand."
  
 
  Madge nodded. "Give you something to do, at any rate. Well, I must be
off. The Buddhist temple has lent us their place for a meeting." She
gave them a woeful grin. "See you when the Earth jumps."
  
 
  Theodor said to Celeste, "Come on, dear. We'll be late."
  
 
  But Celeste didn't want to move too fast. "You know, Teddy," she said
uncomfortably, "all this reminds me of those old myths where too much
good fortune is a sure sign of coming disaster. It was just too much
luck, our great-grandparents missing World III and getting the World
Government started a thousand years ahead of schedule. Luck like that
couldn't last, evidently. Maybe we've gone too fast with a lot of
things, like space-flight and the Deep Shaft and—" she hesitated a
bit—"complex marriages. I'm a woman. I want complete security. Where
am I to find it?"
  
 
  "In me," Theodor said promptly.
  
 
  "In you?" Celeste questioned, walking slowly. "But you're just
one-third of my husband. Perhaps I should look for it in Edmund or
Ivan."
  
 
  "You angry with me about something?"
  
 
  "Of course not. But a woman wants her source of security whole. In a
crisis like this, it's disturbing to have it divided."
  
 
  "Well, we are a whole and, I believe, indivisible family," Theodor
told her warmly. "You're not suggesting, are you, that we're going to
be punished for our polygamous sins by a cosmic catastrophe? Fire from
Heaven and all that?"
  
 
  "Don't be silly. I just wanted to give you a picture of my feeling."
Celeste smiled. "I guess none of us realized how much we've come to
depend on the idea of unchanging scientific law. Knocks the props from
under you."
  
 
  Theodor nodded emphatically. "All the more reason to get a line on
what's happening as quickly as possible. You know, it's fantastically
far-fetched, but I think the experience of persons with Extra-Sensory
Perception may give us a clue. During the past three or four days
there's been a remarkable similarity in the dreams of ESPs all over the
planet. I'm going to present the evidence at the meeting."
  
 
  Celeste looked up at him. "So that's why Rosalind's bringing Frieda's
daughter?"
  
 
  "Dotty is your daughter, too, and Rosalind's," Theodor reminded her.
  
 
  "No, just Frieda's," Celeste said bitterly. "Of course you may be the
father. One-third of a chance."
  
 
  Theodor looked at her sharply, but didn't comment. "Anyway, Dotty will
be there," he said. "Probably asleep by now. All the ESPs have suddenly
seemed to need more sleep."
  
 
  As they talked, it had been growing darker, though the luminescence of
the path kept it from being bothersome. And now the cloud rack parted
to the east, showing a single red planet low on the horizon.
  
 
  "Did you know," Theodor said suddenly, "that in
   
   Gulliver's Travels
   
  Dean Swift predicted that better telescopes would show Mars to have two
moons? He got the sizes and distances and periods damned accurately,
too. One of the few really startling coincidences of reality and
literature."
  
 
  "Stop being eerie," Celeste said sharply. But then she went on, "Those
names Phobos and Deimos—they're Greek, aren't they? What do they mean?"
  
 
  Theodor lost a step. "Fear and Terror," he said unwillingly. "Now
don't go taking that for an omen. Most of the mythological names of
major and minor ancient gods had been taken—the bodies in the Solar
System are named that way, of course—and these were about all that
were available."
  
 
  It was true, but it didn't comfort him much.
  
