While the TV voice intoned the poem, growing richer as emotion caught
it up, Celeste looked around her at the others. Frieda, with her
touch of feminine helplessness showing more than ever through her
business-like poise. Theodor leaning forward from his scarlet cloak
thrown back, smiling the half-smile with which he seemed to face even
the unknown. Black Edmund, masking a deep uncertainty with a strong
show of decisiveness.
  
 
  In short, her family. She knew their every quirk and foible. And yet
now they seemed to her a million miles away, figures seen through the
wrong end of a telescope.
  
 
  Were they really a family? Strong sources of mutual strength and
security to each other? Or had they merely been playing family,
experimenting with their notions of complex marriage like a bunch of
silly adolescents? Butterflies taking advantage of good weather to
wing together in a glamorous, artificial dance—until outraged Nature
decided to wipe them out?
  
 
  As the poem was ending, Celeste saw the door open and Rosalind come
slowly in. The Golden Woman's face was white as the paths she had been
treading.
  
 
  Just then the TV voice quickened with shock. "News! Lunar Observatory
One reports that, although Jupiter is just about to pass behind the
Sun, a good coronagraph of the planet has been obtained. Checked and
rechecked, it admits of only one interpretation, which Lunar One
feels duty-bound to release.
   
   Jupiter's fourteen moons are no longer
visible!
   
  "
  
 
  The chorus of remarks with which the Wolvers would otherwise have
received this was checked by one thing: the fact that Rosalind seemed
not to hear it. Whatever was on her mind prevented even that incredible
statement from penetrating.
  
 
  She walked shakily to the table and put down a briefcase, one end of
which was smudged with dirt.
  
 
  Without looking at them, she said, "Ivan left the Deep Space Bar
twenty minutes ago, said he was coming straight here. On my way back
I searched the path. Midway I found this half-buried in the dirt. I
had to tug to get it out—almost as if it had been cemented into the
ground. Do you feel how the dirt seems to be
   
   in
   
  the leather, as if
it had lain for years in the grave?"
  
 
  By now the others were fingering the small case of microfilms they had
seen so many times in Ivan's competent hands. What Rosalind said was
true. It had a gritty, unwholesome feel to it. Also, it felt strangely
heavy.
  
 
  "And see what's written on it," she added.
  
 
  They turned it over. Scrawled with white pencil in big, hasty, frantic
letters were two words:
  
 
  "Going down!"
  
