He could tell from their looks that the others did, but couldn't bring
themselves to put it into words.
  
 
  "I suppose it's the time-scale and the value-scale that are so hard for
us to accept," he said softly. "Much more, even, than the size-scale.
The thought that there are creatures in the Universe to whom the whole
career of Man—in fact, the whole career of life—is no more than a few
thousand or hundred thousand years. And to whom Man is no more than a
minor stage property—a trifling part of a clever job of camouflage."
  
 
  This time he went on, "Fantasy writers have at times hinted all sorts
of odd things about the Earth—that it might even be a kind of single
living creature, or honeycombed with inhabited caverns, and so on.
But I don't know that any of them have ever suggested that the Earth,
together with all the planets and moons of the Solar System, might
be...."
  
 
  In a whisper, Frieda finished for him, "... a camouflaged fleet of
gigantic spherical spaceships."
  
 
  "
   
   Your guess happens to be the precise truth.
   
  "
  
 
  At that familiar, yet dreadly unfamiliar voice, all four of them swung
toward the inner door. Dotty was standing there, a sleep-stupefied
little girl with a blanket caught up around her and dragging behind.
Their own daughter. But in her eyes was a look from which they cringed.
  
 
  She said, "I am a creature somewhat older than what your geologists
call the Archeozoic Era. I am speaking to you through a number of
telepathically sensitive individuals among your kind. In each case my
thoughts suit themselves to your level of comprehension. I inhabit the
disguised and jetless spaceship which is your Earth."
  
 
  Celeste swayed a step forward. "Baby...." she implored.
  
 
  Dotty went on, without giving her a glance, "It is true that we planted
the seeds of life on some of these planets simply as part of our
camouflage, just as we gave them a suitable environment for each. And
it is true that now we must let most of that life be destroyed. Our
hiding place has been discovered, our pursuers are upon us, and we must
make one last effort to escape or do battle, since we firmly believe
that the principle of mental privacy to which we have devoted our
existence is perhaps the greatest good in the whole Universe.
  
 
  "But it is not true that we look with contempt upon you. Our whole race
is deeply devoted to life, wherever it may come into being, and it is
our rule never to interfere with its development. That was one of
the reasons we made life a part of our camouflage—it would make our
pursuers reluctant to examine these planets too closely.
  
 
  "Yes, we have always cherished you and watched your evolution with
interest from our hidden lairs. We may even unconsciously have shaped
your development in certain ways, trying constantly to educate you away
from war and finally succeeding—which may have given the betraying
clue to our pursuers.
  
 
  "Your planets must be burst asunder—this particular planet in the
area of the Pacific—so that we may have our last chance to escape.
Even if we did not move, our pursuers would destroy you with us. We
cannot invite you inside our ships—not for lack of space, but because
you could never survive the vast accelerations to which you would be
subjected. You would, you see, need very special accommodations, of
which we have enough only for a few.
  
 
  "Those few we will take with us, as the seed from which a new human
race may—if we ourselves somehow survive—be born."
  
