Edmund rapped for attention. Celeste, Frieda, and Theodor glanced
around at him. He looked more frightfully strained, they realized, than
even they felt. His expression was a study in suppressed excitement,
but there were also signs of a knowledge that was almost too
overpowering for a human being to bear.
  
 
  His voice was clipped, rapid. "I think it's about time we stopped
worrying about our own affairs and thought of those of the Solar
System, partly because I think they have a direct bearing on the
disappearances of Ivan end Rosalind. As I told you, I've been sorting
out the crucial items from the material we've been presenting. There
are roughly four of those items, as I see it. It's rather like a
mystery story. I wonder if, hearing those four clues, you will come to
the same conclusion I have."
  
 
  The others nodded.
  
 
  "First, there are the latest reports from Deep Shaft, which, as
you know, has been sunk to investigate deep-Earth conditions. At
approximately twenty-nine miles below the surface, the delvers have
encountered a metallic obstruction which they have tentatively named
the durasphere. It resists their hardest drills, their strongest
corrosives. They have extended a side-tunnel at that level for a
quarter of a mile. Delicate measurements, made possible by the
mirror-smooth metal surface, show that the durasphere has a slight
curvature that is almost exactly equal to the curvature of the Earth
itself. The suggestion is that deep borings made anywhere in the world
would encounter the durasphere at the same depth.
  
 
  "Second, the movements of the moons of Mars and Jupiter, and
particularly the debris left behind by the moons of Mars. Granting
Phobos and Deimos had duraspheres proportional in size to that of
Earth, then the debris would roughly equal in amount the material in
those two duraspheres' rocky envelopes. The suggestion is that the
two duraspheres suddenly burst from their envelopes with such titanic
velocity as to leave those disrupted envelopes behind."
  
 
  It was deadly quiet in the committee room.
  
 
  "Thirdly, the disappearances of Ivan and Rosalind, and especially
the baffling hint—from Ivan's message in one case and Rosalind's
downward-pointing glove in the other—that they were both somehow drawn
into the depths of the Earth.
  
 
  "Finally, the dreams of the ESPs, which agree overwhelmingly in the
following points: A group of beings separate themselves from a godlike
and telepathic race because they insist on maintaining a degree of
mental privacy. They flee in great boats or ships of some sort. They
are pursued on such a scale that there is no hiding place for them
anywhere in the universe. In some manner they successfully camouflage
their ships. Eons pass and their still-fanatical pursuers do not
penetrate their secret. Then, suddenly, they are detected."
  
 
  Edmund waited. "Do you see what I'm driving at?" he asked hoarsely.
  
