Rosalind didn't catch up with Theodor. Her footsteps were silent and
he never looked back along the path whose feeble white glow rose only
knee-high, lighting a low strip of shrub and mossy tree trunk to either
side, no more.
  
 
  It was a little chilly. She drew on her gloves, but she didn't hurry.
In fact, she fell farther and farther behind the dipping tail of
his scarlet cloak and his plodding red shoes, which seemed to move
disembodied, like those in the fairy tale.
  
 
  When she reached the point where she had found Ivan's briefcase, she
stopped altogether.
  
 
  A breeze rustled the leaves, and, moistly brushing her cheek, brought
forest scents of rot and mold. After a bit she began to hear the
furtive scurryings and scuttlings of forest creatures.
  
 
  She looked around her half-heartedly, suddenly realizing the futility
of her quest. What clues could she hope to find in this knee-high
twilight? And they'd thoroughly combed the place earlier in the night.
  
 
  Without warning, an eerie tingling went through her and she was seized
by a horror of the cold, grainy Earth underfoot—an ancestral terror
from the days when men shivered at ghost stories about graves and tombs.
  
 
  A tiny detail persisted in bulking larger and larger in her mind—the
unnaturalness of the way the Earth had impregnated the corner of Ivan's
briefcase, almost as if dirt and leather co-existed in the same space.
She remembered the queer way the partly buried briefcase had resisted
her first tug, like a rooted plant.
  
 
  She felt cowed by the mysterious night about her, and literally
dwarfed, as if she had grown several inches shorter. She roused herself
and started forward.
  
 
  Something held her feet.
  
 
  They were ankle-deep in the path. While she looked in fright and
horror, they began to sink still lower into the ground.
  
 
  She plunged frantically, trying to jerk loose. She couldn't. She had
the panicky feeling that the Earth had not only trapped but invaded
her; that its molecules were creeping up between the molecules of her
flesh; that the two were becoming one.
  
 
  And she was sinking faster. Now knee-deep, thigh-deep, hip-deep,
waist-deep. She beat at the powdery path with her hands and threw her
body from side to side in agonized frenzy like some sinner frozen in
the ice of the innermost circle of the ancients' hell. And always the
sense of the dark, grainy tide rose inside as well as around her.
  
 
  She thought,
   
   he'd just have had time to scribble that note on his
briefcase and toss it away.
   
  She jerked off a glove, leaned out as
far as she could, and made a frantic effort to drive its fingers into
the powdery path. Then the Earth mounted to her chin, her nose, and
covered her eyes.
  
 
  She expected blackness, but it was as if the light of the path stayed
with her, making a little glow all around. She saw roots, pebbles,
black rot, worn tunnels, worms. Tier on tier of them, her vision
penetrating the solid ground. And at the same time, the knowledge that
these same sorts of things were coursing up through her.
  
