Theodor recognized the shrunken wrinkle-seamed face. It was Colonel
Fortescue, a military antique long retired from the Peace Patrol and
reputed to have seen actual fighting in the Last Age of Madness. Now,
for some reason, the face sported a knowing smile.
  
 
  Theodor shrugged. Just then the TV "big news" light blinked blue and
the girl switched on audio. The Colonel winked at Theodor.
  
 
  "... confirming the disappearance of Jupiter's moons. But two other
utterly fantastic reports have just been received. First, Lunar
Observatory One says that it is visually tracking fourteen small bodies
which it believes may be the lost moons of Jupiter. They are moving
outward from the Solar System at an incredible velocity and are already
beyond the orbit of Saturn!"
  
 
  The Colonel said, "Ah!"
  
 
  "Second, Palomar reports a large number of dark bodies approaching the
Solar System at an equally incredible velocity. They are at about twice
the distance of Pluto, but closing in fast! We will be on the air with
further details as soon as possible."
  
 
  The Colonel said, "Ah-ha!"
  
 
  Theodor stared at him. The old man's self-satisfied poise was almost
amusing.
  
 
  "Are you a Kometevskyite?" Theodor asked him.
  
 
  The Colonel laughed. "Of course not, my boy. Those poor people are
fumbling in the dark. Don't you see what's happened?"
  
 
  "Frankly, no."
  
 
  The Colonel leaned toward Theodor and whispered gruffly, "The Divine
Plan. God is a military strategist, naturally."
  
 
  Then he lifted the scotch-and-soda in his clawlike hand and took a
satisfying swallow.
  
 
  "I knew it all along, of course," he went on musingly, "but this last
news makes it as plain as a rocket blast, at least to anyone who knows
military strategy. Look here, my boy, suppose you were commanding a
fleet and got wind of the enemy's approach—what would you do? Why,
you'd send your scouts and destroyers fanning out toward them. Behind
that screen you'd mass your heavy ships. Then—"
  
 
  "You don't mean to imply—" Theodor interrupted.
  
 
  The girl behind the bar looked at them both cryptically.
  
 
  "Of course I do!" the Colonel cut in sharply. "It's a war between the
forces of good and evil. The bright suns and planets are on one side,
the dark on the other. The moons are the destroyers, Jupiter and
Saturn are the big battleships, while we're on a heavy cruiser, I'm
proud to say. We'll probably go into action soon. Be a corking fight,
what? And all by divine strategy!"
  
 
  He chuckled and took another big drink. Theodor looked at him sourly.
The girl behind the bar polished a glass and said nothing.
  
