Rodney mumbled something, and Martin told him to shut up.
  
 
  Wass said, more quietly, "Remember that metal band? It's all clear now,
and glittering, as far as I can see. I can't get across it; it's like a
glass wall."
  
 
  "We're trapped, we're trapped, they are—"
  
 
  "Shut up, Rodney! Wass, I'm only two sections from the edge. I'll check
here."
  
 
  Martin clapped a hand on Rodney's shoulder again, starting him moving,
toward the city's edge, past the black, silent buildings.
  
 
  The glittering band was here, too, like a halo around a silhouette.
  
 
  "No go," Martin said to Wass. He bit at his lower lip. "I think it must
be all around us." He was silent for a time, exploring the consequences
of this. Then—"We'll meet you in the middle of the city, where we
separated."
  
 
  Walking with Rodney, Martin heard Wass' voice, flat and metallic
through the radio receiver against his ear. "What do you suppose caused
this?"
  
 
  He shook his head angrily, saying, "Judging by reports of the rest of
the planet, it must have been horribly radioactive at one time. All of
it."
  
 
  "Man-made radiation, you mean."
  
 
  Martin grinned faintly. Wass, too, had an active imagination. "Well,
alien-made, anyhow. Perhaps they had a war."
  
 
  Wass' voice sounded startled. "Anti-radiation screen?"
  
 
  Rodney interrupted, "There hasn't been enough radiation around here for
hundreds of thousands of years to activate such a screen."
  
 
  Wass said coldly, "He's right, Martin."
  
 
  Martin crossed an intersection, Rodney slightly behind him. "You're
both wrong," he said. "We landed here today."
  
 
  Rodney stopped in the middle of the metal street and stared down at
Martin. "The wind—?"
  
 
  "Why not?"
  
 
  "That would explain why it stopped so suddenly, then." Rodney stood
straighter. When he walked again, his steps were firmer.
  
 
  They reached the center of the city, ahead of the small, slight Wass,
and stood watching him labor along the metal toward them.
  
 
  Wass' face, Martin saw, was sober. "I tried to call the ship. No luck."
  
 
  "The shield?"
  
 
  Wass nodded. "What else?"
  
 
  "I don't know—"
  
 
  "If we went to the roof of the tallest building," Rodney offered, "we
might—"
  
 
  Martin shook his head. "No. To be effective, the shield would have to
cover the city."
  
 
  Wass stared down at the metal street, as if he could look through it.
"I wonder where it gets its power?"
  
 
  "Down below, probably. If there is a down below." Martin hesitated. "We
may have to...."
  
 
  "What?" Rodney prompted.
  
 
  Martin shrugged. "Let's look."
  
 
  He led the way through a shoulder-high arch in one of the tall
buildings surrounding the square. The corridor inside was dim and
plain, and he switched on his flashlight, the other two immediately
following his example. The walls and the rounded ceiling of the
corridor were of the same dull metal as the buildings' facades, and
the streets. There were a multitude of doors and arches set into
either side of the corridor.
  
 
  It was rather like ... entering a gigantic metal beehive.
  
 
  Martin chose an arch, with beyond it a metal ramp, which tilted
downward, gleaming in the pale circle of his torch.
  
 
  A call from Rodney halted him. "Back here," the tall man repeated. "It
looks like a switchboard."
  
 
  The three advanced to the end of the central corridor, pausing before a
great arch, outlined in the too-careful geometrical figures Martin had
come to associate with the city builders. The three torches, shining
through the arch, picked out a bank of buttons, handles ... and a thick
rope of cables which ran upward to vanish unexpectedly in the metal
roof.
  
 
  "Is this it," Wass murmured, "or an auxiliary?"
  
 
  Martin shrugged. "The whole city's no more than a machine, apparently."
  
 
  "Another assumption," Wass said. "We have done nothing but make
assumptions ever since we got here."
  
 
  "What would you suggest, instead?" Martin asked calmly.
  
 
  Rodney furtively, extended one hand toward a switch.
  
 
  "No!" Martin said, sharply. That was one assumption they dared not make.
  
 
  Rodney turned. "But—"
  
 
  "No. Wass, how much time have we?"
  
 
  "The ship leaves in eleven hours."
  
 
  "Eleven hours," Rodney repeated. "Eleven hours!" He reached out for the
switch again. Martin swore, stepped forward, pulled him back roughly.
  
 
  He directed his flashlight at Rodney's thin, pale face. "What do you
think you're doing?"
  
 
  "We have to find out what all this stuff's for!"
  
 
  "Going at it blindly, we'd probably execute ourselves."
  
 
  "We've got to—"
  
 
  "No!" Then, more quietly—"We still have eleven hours to find a way
out."
  
 
  "Ten hours and forty-five minutes," Wass disagreed softly. "Minus the
time it takes us to get to the lifeboat, fly to the ship, land, stow
it, get ourselves aboard, and get the big ship away from the planet.
And Captain Morgan can't wait for us, Martin."
  
 
  "You too, Wass?"
  
 
  "Up to the point of accuracy, yes."
  
 
  Martin said, "Not necessarily. You go the way the wind does, always
thinking of your own tender hide, of course."
  
 
  Rodney cursed. "And every second we stand here doing nothing gives us
that much less time to find a way out. Martin—"
  
 
  "Make one move toward that switchboard and I'll stop you where you
stand!"
  
