Wass moved silently through the darkness beyond the torches. "We all
have guns, Martin."
  
 
  "I'm holding mine." Martin waited.
  
 
  After a moment, Wass switched his flashlight back on. He said quietly,
"He's right, Rodney. It would be sure death to monkey around in here."
  
 
  "Well...." Rodney turned quickly toward the black arch. "Let's get out
of here, then!"
  
 
  Martin hung back waiting for the others to go ahead of him down the
metal hall. At the other arch, where the ramp led downward, he called a
halt. "If the dome, or whatever it is, is a radiation screen there must
be at least half-a-dozen emergency exits around the city."
  
 
  Rodney said, "To search every building next to the dome clean around
the city would take years."
  
 
  Martin nodded. "But there must be central roads beneath this main level
leading to them. Up here there are too many roads."
  
 
  Wass laughed rudely.
  
 
  "Have you a better idea?"
  
 
  Wass ignored that, as Martin hoped he would. He said slowly, "That
leads to another idea. If the band around the city is responsible for
the dome, does it project down into the ground as well?"
  
 
  "You mean
   
   dig
   
  out?" Martin asked.
  
 
  "Sure. Why not?"
  
 
  "We're wearing heavy suits and bulky breathing units. We have no
equipment."
  
 
  "That shouldn't be hard to come by."
  
 
  Martin smiled, banishing Wass' idea.
  
 
  Rodney said, "They may have had their digging equipment built right in
to themselves."
  
 
  "Anyway," Martin decided, "we can take a look down below."
  
 
  "In the pitch dark," Wass added.
  
 
  Martin adjusted his torch, began to lead the way down the metal ramp.
The incline was gentle, apparently constructed for legs shorter, feet
perhaps less broad than their own. The metal, without mark of any sort,
gleamed under the combined light of the torches, unrolling out of the
darkness before the men.
  
 
  At length the incline melted smoothly into the next level of the city.
  
 
  Martin shined his light upward, and the others followed his example.
Metal as smooth and featureless as that on which they stood shone down
on them.
  
 
  Wass turned his light parallel with the floor, and then moved slowly in
a circle. "No supports. No supports anywhere. What keeps all that up
there?"
  
 
  "I don't know. I have no idea." Martin gestured toward the ramp with
his light. "Does all this, this whole place, look at all familiar to
you?"
  
 
  Rodney's gulp was clearly audible through the radio receivers. "Here?"
  
 
  "No, no," Martin answered impatiently, "not just here. I mean the whole
city."
  
 
  "Yes," Wass said dryly, "it does. I'm sure this is where all my
nightmares stay when they're not on shift."
  
 
  Martin turned on his heel and started down a metal avenue which, he
thought, paralleled the street above. And Rodney and Wass followed him
silently. They moved along the metal, past unfamiliar shapes made more
so by gloom and moving shadows, past doors dancing grotesquely in the
three lights, past openings in the occasional high metal partitions,
past something which was perhaps a conveyor belt, past another
something which could have been anything at all.
  
 
  The metal street ended eventually in a blank metal wall.
  
 
  The edge of the city—the city which was a dome of force above and a
bowl of metal below.
  
 
  After a long time, Wass sighed. "Well, skipper...?"
  
 
  "We go back, I guess," Martin said.
  
 
  Rodney turned swiftly to face him. Martin thought the tall man was
holding his gun. "To the switchboard, Martin?"
  
 
  "Unless someone has a better idea," Martin conceded. He waited. But
Rodney was holding the gun ... and Wass was.... Then—"I can't think of
anything else."
  
 
  They began to retrace their steps along the metal street, back past
the same dancing shapes of metal, the partitions, the odd windows, all
looking different now in the new angles of illumination.
  
 
  Martin was in the lead. Wass followed him silently. Rodney, tall,
matchstick thin, even in his cumbersome suit, swayed with jaunty
triumph in the rear.
  
 
  Martin looked at the metal street lined with its metal objects and he
sighed. He remembered how the dark buildings of the city looked at
surface level, how the city itself looked when they were landing, and
then when they were walking toward it. The dream was gone again for
now. Idealism died in him, again and again, yet it was always reborn.
But—The only city, so far as anyone knew, on the first planet they'd
ever explored. And it had to be like this. Nightmares, Wass said, and
Martin thought perhaps the city was built by a race of beings who at
some point twisted away from their evolutionary spiral, plagued by a
sort of racial insanity.
  
 
  No, Martin thought, shaking his head. No, that couldn't be.
Viewpoint ... his viewpoint. It was the haunting sense of familiarity,
a faint strain through all this broad jumble, the junkpile of alien
metal, which was making him theorize so wildly.
  
 
  Then Wass touched his elbow. "Look there, Martin. Left of the ramp."
  
 
  Light from their torches was reflected, as from glass.
  
 
  "All right," Rodney said belligerently into his radio. "What's holding
up the procession?"
  
 
  Martin was silent.
  
 
  Wass undertook to explain. Why not, after all? Martin asked himself. It
was in Wass' own interest. In a moment, all three were standing before
a bank of glass cases which stretched off into the distance as far as
the combined light of their torches would reach.
  
 
  "Seeds!" Wass exclaimed, his faceplate pressed against the glass.
  
 
  Martin blinked. He thought how little time they had. He wet his lips.
  
 
  Wass' gloved hands fumbled awkwardly at a catch in the nearest section
of the bank.
  
 
  Martin thought of the dark, convoluted land outside the city. If they
wouldn't grow there.... Or had they, once? "Don't, Wass!"
  
 
  Torchlight reflected from Wass' faceplate as he turned his head. "Why
not?"
  
 
  They were like children.... "We don't know, released, what they'll do."
  
 
  "Skipper," Wass said carefully, "if we don't get out of this place by
the deadline we may be eating these."
  
 
  Martin raised his arm tensely. "Opening a seed bank doesn't help us
find a way out of here." He started up the ramp. "Besides, we've no
water."
  
 
  Rodney came last up the ramp, less jaunty now, but still holding the
gun. His mind, too, was taken up with childhood's imaginings. "For
a plant to grow in this environment, it wouldn't need much water.
Maybe—" he had a vision of evil plants attacking them, growing with
super-swiftness at the air valves and joints of their suits "—only the
little moisture in the atmosphere."
  
