  DUST UNTO DUST
  
 
  By LYMAN D. HINCKLEY
  
 
  It was alien but was it dead, this towering, sinister
   
  city of metal that glittered malignantly before the
   
  cautious advance of three awed space-scouters.
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Planet Stories Summer 1955.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  Martin set the lifeboat down carefully, with all the attention one
usually exercises in a situation where the totally unexpected has
occurred, and he and his two companions sat and stared in awed silence
at the city a quarter-mile away.
  
 
  He saw the dull, black walls of buildings shouldering grimly into the
twilight sky, saw the sheared edge where the metal city ended and the
barren earth began ... and he remembered observing, even before they
landed, the too-strict geometry imposed on the entire construction.
  
 
  He frowned. The first impression was ... malignant.
  
 
  Wass, blond and slight, with enough nose for three or four men,
unbuckled his safety belt and stood up. "Shall we, gentlemen?" and with
a graceful movement of hand and arm he indicated the waiting city.
  
 
  Martin led Wass, and the gangling, scarecrow-like Rodney, through the
stillness overlaying the barren ground. There was only the twilight
sky, and harsh and black against it, the convoluted earth. And the
city. Malignant. He wondered, again, what beings would choose to build
a city—even a city like this one—in such surroundings.
  
 
  The men from the ship knew only the surface facts about this waiting
geometric discovery. Theirs was the eleventh inter-planetary flight,
and the previous ten, in the time allowed them for exploration while
this planet was still close enough to their own to permit a safe return
in their ships, had not spotted the city. But the eleventh expedition
had, an hour ago, with just thirteen hours left during which a return
flight could be safely started. So far as was known, this was the only
city on the planet—the planet without any life at all, save tiny
mosses, for a million years or more. And no matter which direction from
the city a man moved, he would always be going north.
  
 
  "Hey, Martin!" Rodney called through his helmet radio. Martin paused.
"Wind," Rodney said, coming abreast of him. He glanced toward the black
pile, as if sharing Martin's thoughts. "That's all we need, isn't it?"
  
 
  Martin looked at the semi-transparent figures of wind and dust
cavorting in the distance, moving toward them. He grinned a little,
adjusting his radio. "Worried?"
  
 
  Rodney's bony face was without expression. "Gives me the creeps, kind
of. I wonder what they were like?"
  
 
  Wass murmured, "Let us hope they aren't immortal."
  
 
  Three feet from the edge of the city Martin stopped and stubbed at the
sand with the toe of his boot, clearing earth from part of a shining
metal band.
  
 
  Wass watched him, and then shoved aside more sand, several feet away.
"It's here, too."
  
 
  Martin stood up. "Let's try farther on. Rodney, radio the ship, tell
them we're going in."
  
 
  Rodney nodded.
  
 
  After a time, Wass said, "Here, too. How far do you think it goes?"
  
 
  Martin shrugged. "Clear around the city? I'd like to know what it
is—was—for."
  
 
  "Defense," Rodney, several yards behind, suggested.
  
 
  "Could be," Martin said. "Let's go in."
  
 
  The three crossed the metal band and walked abreast down a street,
their broad soft soled boots making no sound on the dull metal. They
passed doors and arches and windows and separate buildings. They moved
cautiously across five intersections. And they stood in a square
surrounded by the tallest buildings in the city.
  
 
  Rodney broke the silence, hesitantly. "Not—not very big. Is it?"
  
 
  Wass looked at him shrewdly. "Neither were the—well, shall we call
them, people? Have you noticed how low everything is?"
  
 
  Rodney's laughter rose, too. Then, sobering—"Maybe they crawled."
  
 
  A nebulous image, product of childhood's vivid imagination, moved
slowly across Martin's mind. "All right!" he rapped out—and the image
faded.
  
 
  "Sorry," Rodney murmured, his throat working beneath his lantern jaw.
Then—"I wonder what it's like here in the winter when there's no light
at all?"
  
 
  "I imagine they had illumination of some sort," Martin answered, dryly.
"If we don't hurry up and get through this place and back to the ship,
we're very likely to find out."
  
 
  Rodney said quickly, "I mean outside."
  
 
  "Out there, too, Rodney, they must have had illumination." Martin
looked back along the straight, metal street they'd walked on, and past
that out over the bleak, furrowed slopes where the ship's lifeboat
lay ... and he thought everything outside the city seemed, somehow,
from here, a little dim, a little hazy.
  
 
  He straightened his shoulders. The city was alien, of course, and that
explained most of it ... most of it. But he felt the black city was
something familiar, yet twisted and distorted.
  
 
  "Well," Wass said, his nose wrinkling a bit, "now that we're here...."
  
 
  "Pictures," Martin decided. "We have twelve hours. We'll start here.
What's the matter, Wass?"
  
 
  The blond man grinned ruefully. "I left the camera in the lifeboat."
There was a pause. Then Wass, defensively—"It's almost as if the city
didn't want to be photographed."
  
 
  Martin ignored the remark. "Go get it. Rodney and I will be somewhere
along this street."
  
 
  Wass turned away. Martin and Rodney started slowly down the wide metal
street, at right angles to their path of entrance.
  
 
  Again Martin felt a tug of twisted, distorted familiarity. It was
almost as if ... they were human up to a certain point, the point
being, perhaps, some part of their minds.... Alien things, dark and
subtle, things no man could ever comprehend.
  
 
  Parallel evolution on two inner planets of the same system? Somewhere,
sometime, a common ancestor? Martin noted the shoulder-high doors, the
heavier gravity, remembered the inhabitants of the city vanished before
the thing that was to become man ever emerged from the slime, and he
decided to grin at himself, at his own imagination.
  
 
  Rodney jerked his scarecrow length about quickly, and a chill sped up
Martin's spine. "What's the matter?"
  
 
  The bony face was white, the gray eyes were wide. "I saw—I thought I
saw—something—moving—"
  
 
  Anger rose in Martin. "You didn't," he said flatly, gripping the
other's shoulder cruelly. "You couldn't have. Get hold of yourself,
man!"
  
 
  Rodney stared. "The wind. Remember? There isn't any, here."
  
 
  "... How could there be? The buildings protect us now. It was blowing
from the other direction."
  
 
  Rodney wrenched free of Martin's grip. He gestured wildly. "That—"
  
 
  "Martin!" Wass' voice came through the receivers in both their radios.
"Martin, I can't get out!"
  
