They stood before the switchboard again. Martin and Wass side by side,
Rodney, still holding his gun, slightly to the rear.
  
 
  Rodney moved forward a little toward the switches. His breathing was
loud and rather uneven in the radio receivers.
  
 
  Martin made a final effort. "Rodney, it's still almost nine hours to
take off. Let's search awhile first. Let this be a last resort."
  
 
  Rodney jerked his head negatively. "No. Now, I know you, Martin.
Postpone and postpone until it's too late, and the ship leaves without
us and we're stranded here to eat seeds and gradually dehydrate
ourselves and God only knows what else and—"
  
 
  He reached out convulsively and yanked a switch.
  
 
  Martin leaped, knocking him to the floor. Rodney's gun skittered away
silently, like a live thing, out of the range of the torches.
  
 
  The radio receivers impersonally recorded the grating sounds of
Rodney's sobs.
  
 
  "Sorry," Martin said, without feeling. He turned quickly. "Wass?"
  
 
  The slight, blond man stood unmoving. "I'm with you, Martin, but, as
a last resort it might be better to be blown sky high than to die
gradually—"
  
 
  Martin was watching Rodney, struggling to get up. "I agree. As a last
resort. We still have a little time."
  
 
  Rodney's tall, spare figure looked bowed and tired in the torchlight,
now that he was up again. "Martin, I—"
  
 
  Martin turned his back. "Skip it, Rodney," he said gently.
  
 
  "Water," Wass said thoughtfully. "There must be reservoirs under this
city somewhere."
  
 
  Rodney said, "How does water help us get out?"
  
 
  Martin glanced at Wass, then started out of the switchboard room, not
looking back. "It got in and out of the city some way. Perhaps we can
leave the same way."
  
 
  Down the ramp again.
  
 
  "There's another ramp," Wass murmured.
  
 
  Rodney looked down it. "I wonder how many there are, all told."
  
 
  Martin placed one foot on the metal incline. He angled his torch down,
picking out shadowy, geometrical shapes, duplicates of the ones on the
present level. "We'll find out," he said, "how many there are."
  
 
  Eleven levels later Rodney asked, "How much time have we now?"
  
 
  "Seven hours," Wass said quietly, "until take-off."
  
 
  "One more level," Martin said, ignoring the reference to time. "I ...
think it's the last."
  
 
  They walked down the ramp and stood together, silent in a dim pool of
artificial light on the bottom level of the alien city.
  
 
  Rodney played his torch about the metal figures carefully placed about
the floor. "Martin, what if there are no reservoirs? What if there are
cemeteries instead? Or cold storage units? Maybe the switch I pulled—"
  
 
  "Rodney! Stop it!"
  
 
  Rodney swallowed audibly. "This place scares me...."
  
 
  "The first time I was ever in a rocket, it scared me. I was thirteen."
  
 
  "This is different," Wass said. "Built-in traps—"
  
 
  "They had a war," Martin said.
  
 
  Wass agreed. "And the survivors retired here. Why?"
  
 
  Martin said, "They wanted to rebuild. Or maybe this was already built
before the war as a retreat." He turned impatiently. "How should I
know?"
  
 
  Wass turned, too, persistent. "But the planet was through with them."
  
 
  "In a minute," Martin said, too irritably, "we'll have a sentient
planet." From the corner of his eye he saw Rodney start at that. "Knock
it off, Wass. We're looking for reservoirs, you know."
  
 
  They moved slowly down the metal avenue, between the twisted shadow
shapes, looking carefully about them.
  
 
  Rodney paused. "We might not recognize one."
  
 
  Martin urged him on. "You know what a man-hole cover looks like." He
added dryly, "Use your imagination."
  
 
  They reached the metal wall at the end of the avenue and paused again,
uncertain.
  
 
  Martin swung his flashlight, illuminating the distorted metal shapes.
  
 
  Wass said, "All this had a purpose, once...."
  
 
  "We'll disperse and search carefully," Martin said.
  
 
  "I wonder what the pattern was."
  
 
  "... The reservoirs, Wass. The pattern will still be here for later
expeditions to study. So will we if we don't find a way to get out."
  
 
  Their radios recorded Rodney's gasp. Then—"Martin! Martin! I think
I've found something!"
  
 
  Martin began to run. After a moment's hesitation, Wass swung in behind
him.
  
 
  "Here," Rodney said, as they came up to him, out of breath. "Here. See?
Right here."
  
 
  Three flashlights centered on a dark, metal disk raised a foot or more
from the floor.
  
 
  "Well, they had hands." With his torch Wass indicated a small wheel of
the same metal as everything else in the city, set beside the disk.
  
 
  From its design Martin assumed that the disk was meant to be grasped
and turned. He wondered what precisely they were standing over.
  
 
  "Well, Skipper, are you going to do the honors?"
  
 
  Martin kneeled, grasped the wheel. It turned easily—almost too
easily—rotating the disk as it turned.
  
 
  Suddenly, without a sound, the disk rose, like a hatch, on a concealed
hinge.
  
 
  The three men, clad in their suits and helmets, grouped around the
six-foot opening, shining their torches down into the thing that
drifted and eddied directly beneath them.
  
 
  Rodney's sudden grip on Martin's wrist nearly shattered the bone.
"Martin! It's all alive! It's moving!"
  
 
  Martin hesitated long enough for a coil to move sinuously up toward the
opening. Then he spun the wheel and the hatch slammed down.
  
 
  He was shaking.
  
