Using the technique I had grasped from the Gool itself, I struck,
stifling the outcry, invaded the fetid blackness and grappled the
obscene gelatinous immensity of the Gool spy as it spasmed in a frenzy
of xenophobia—a ton of liver writhing at the bottom of a dark well.
  
 
  I clamped down control. The Gool mind folded in on itself, gibbering.
Not pausing to rest, I followed up, probed along my channel of contact,
tracing patterns, scanning the flaccid Gool mind....
  
 
  I saw a world of yellow seas lapping at endless shores of mud. There
was a fuming pit, where liquid sulphur bubbled up from some inner
source, filling an immense natural basin. The Gool clustered at its
rim, feeding, each monstrous shape heaving against its neighbors for a
more favorable position.
  
 
 
 
  I probed farther, saw the great cables of living nervous tissue that
linked each eating organ with the brain-mass far underground. I traced
the passages through which tendrils ran out to immense caverns where
smaller creatures labored over strange devices. These, my host's memory
told me, were the young of the Gool. Here they built the fleets that
would transport the spawn to the new worlds the Prime Overlord had
discovered, worlds where food was free for the taking. Not sulphur
alone, but potassium, calcium, iron and all the metals—riches
beyond belief in endless profusion. No longer would the Gool tribe
cluster—those who remained of a once-great race—at a single feeding
trough. They would spread out across a galaxy—and beyond.
  
 
  But not if I could help it.
  
 
  The Gool had evolved a plan—but they'd had a stroke of bad luck.
  
 
  In the past, they had managed to control a man here and there, among
the fleets, far from home, but only at a superficial level. Enough,
perhaps, to wreck a ship, but not the complete control needed to send a
man back to Earth under Gool compulsion, to carry out complex sabotage.
  
 
  Then they had found me, alone, a sole survivor, free from the clutter
of the other mind-fields. It had been their misfortune to pick a
psychodynamicist. Instead of gaining a patient slave, they had opened
the fortress door to an unseen spy. Now that I was there, I would see
what I could steal.
  
 
  A timeless time passed. I wandered among patterns of white light and
white sound, plumbed the deepest recesses of hidden Gool thoughts,
fared along strange ways examining the shapes and colors of the
concepts of an alien mind.
  
 
  I paused at last, scanning a multi-ordinal structure of pattern within
pattern; the diagrammed circuits of a strange machine.
  
 
  I followed through its logic-sequence; and, like a bomb-burst, its
meaning exploded in my mind.
  
 
  From the vile nest deep under the dark surface of the Gool world in
its lonely trans-Plutonian orbit, I had plucked the ultimate secret of
their kind.
  
 
  Matter across space.
  
