The immense orderly confusion of the basic memory level lay before
me. Abstracted from it, aloof and observant, the monitoring
personality-fraction scanned the pattern, searching the polydimensional
continuum for evidence of an alien intrusion.
  
 
  And found it.
  
 
  As the eye instantaneously detects a flicker of motion amid an infinity
of static detail, so my inner eye perceived the subtle traces of the
probing Gool mind, like a whispered touch deftly rearranging my buried
motivations.
  
 
  I focused selectively, tuned to the recorded gestalt.
  
 
  "
   
   It is a contact, Effulgent One!
   
  "
  
 
  "
   
   Softly, now! Nurture the spark well. It but trembles at the
threshold....
   
  "
  
 
  "
   
   It is elusive, Master! It wriggles like a gorm-worm in the eating
trough!
   
  "
  
 
  A part of my mind watched as the memory unreeled. I listened to the
voices—yet not voices, merely the shape of concepts, indescribably
intricate. I saw how the decoy pseudo-personality which I had
concretized for the purpose in a hundred training sessions had fought
against the intruding stimuli—then yielded under the relentless thrust
of the alien probe. I watched as the Gool operator took over the motor
centers, caused me to crawl through the choking smoke of the devastated
control compartment toward the escape hatch. Fire leaped up, blocking
the way. I went on, felt ghostly flames whipping at me—and then the
hatch was open and I pulled myself through, forcing the broken leg.
My blackened hand fumbled at the locking wheel. Then the blast as
the lifeboat leaped clear of the disintegrating dreadnought—and the
world-ending impact as I fell.
  
 
  At a level far below the conscious, the embattled pseudo-personality
lashed out again—fighting the invader.
  
 
  "
   
   Almost it eluded me then, Effulgent Lord. Link with this lowly one!
   
  "
  
 
  "
   
   Impossible! Do you forget all my teachings? Cling, though you expend
the last filament of your life-force!
   
  "
  
 
  Free from all distraction, at a level where comprehension and retention
are instantaneous and total, my monitoring basic personality fraction
followed the skillful Gool mind as it engraved its commands deep in
my subconscious. Then the touch withdrew, erasing the scars of its
passage, to leave me unaware of its tampering—at a conscious level.
  
 
  Watching the Gool mind, I learned.
  
 
  The insinuating probe—a concept regarding which psychodynamicists had
theorized—was no more than a pattern in emptiness....
  
 
  But a pattern which I could duplicate, now that I had seen what had
been done to me.
  
 
  Hesitantly, I felt for the immaterial fabric of the continuum, warping
and manipulating it, copying the Gool probe. Like planes of paper-thin
crystal, the polyfinite aspects of reality shifted into focus, aligning
themselves.
  
 
  Abruptly, a channel lay open. As easily as I would stretch out my hand
to pluck a moth from a night-flower, I reached across the unimaginable
void—and sensed a pit blacker than the bottom floor of hell, and a
glistening dark shape.
  
 
  There was a soundless shriek. "
   
   Effulgence! It reached out—touched
me!
   
  "
  
