It was a little before dawn when I crawled out of the car at a siding
in the swampy country a few miles out of New Orleans. I wasn't feeling
good, but I had a stake in staying on my feet. I still had a few miles
in me. I had my supplies—a few candy bars and some cigarettes—stuffed
in the pockets of the tattered issue coverall. Otherwise, I was
unencumbered. Unless you wanted to count the walking brace on my right
leg and the sling binding my arm.
  
 
  I picked my way across mushy ground to a pot-holed black-top road,
started limping toward a few car lights visible half a mile away. It
was already hot. The swamp air was like warmed-over subway fumes.
Through the drugs, I could feel my pulse throbbing in my various
wounds. I reached out and touched the driver's mind; he was thinking
about shrimps, a fish-hook wound on his left thumb and a girl with
black hair. "Want a lift?" he called.
  
 
  I thanked him and got in. He gave me a glance and I pinched off his
budding twinge of curiosity. It was almost an effort now not to follow
his thoughts. It was as though my mind, having learned the trick of
communications with others, instinctively reached out toward them.
  
 
  An hour later he dropped me on a street corner in a shabby marketing
district of the city and drove off. I hoped he made out all right with
the dark-haired girl. I spotted a used-clothing store and headed for it.
  
 
  Twenty minutes later I was back on the sidewalk, dressed in a
pinkish-gray suit that had been cut a long time ago by a Latin
tailor—maybe to settle a grudge. The shirt that went with it was
an unsuccessful violet. The black string tie lent a dubious air of
distinction. I'd swapped the railroader's cap for a tarnished beret.
The man who had supplied the outfit was still asleep. I figured
I'd done him a favor by taking it. I couldn't hope to pass for a
fisherman—I wasn't the type. Maybe I'd get by as a coffee-house
derelict.
  
 
  I walked past fly-covered fish stalls, racks of faded garments, grimy
vegetables in bins, enough paint-flaked wrought iron to cage a herd of
brontosauri, and fetched up at a cab stand. I picked a fat driver with
a wart.
  
 
  "How much to the Delta National Laboratories?"
  
 
  He rolled an eye toward me, shifted his toothpick.
  
 
  "What ya wanna go out there for? Nothing out there."
  
 
  "I'm a tourist," I said. "They told me before I left home not to miss
it."
  
 
  He grunted, reached back and opened the door. I got in. He flipped his
flag down, started up with a clash of gears and pulled out without
looking.
  
 
  "How far is it?" I asked him.
  
 
  "It ain't far. Mile, mile and a quarter."
  
 
  "Pretty big place, I guess."
  
 
  He didn't answer.
  
 
  We went through a warehousing district, swung left along the
waterfront, bumped over railroad tracks, and pulled up at a nine-foot
cyclone fence with a locked gate.
  
 
  "A buck ten," my driver said.
  
 
  I looked out at the fence, a barren field, a distant group of low
buildings. "What's this?"
  
 
  "This is the place you ast for. That'll be a buck ten, mister."
  
 
  I touched his mind, planted a couple of false impressions and withdrew.
He blinked, then started up, drove around the field, pulled up at an
open gate with a blue-uniformed guard. He looked back at me.
  
 
  "You want I should drive in, sir?"
  
 
  "I'll get out here."
  
 
  He jumped out, opened my door, helped me out with a hand under my good
elbow. "I'll get your change, sir," he said, reaching for his hip.
  
 
  "Keep it."
  
 
  "Thank YOU." He hesitated. "Maybe I oughta stick around. You know."
  
 
  "I'll be all right."
  
 
  "I hope so," he said. "A man like you—you and me—" he winked. "After
all, we ain't both wearing berets fer nothing."
  
 
  "True," I said. "Consider your tip doubled. Now drive away into the
sunrise and forget you ever saw me."
  
