I came out of it clear-headed but weak. My right leg was numb, but
reasonably comfortable, clamped tight in a walking brace. I put up
a hand and felt a shaved skull, with sutures. It must have been a
fracture. The left arm—well, it was still there, wrapped to the
shoulder and held out stiffly by a power truss that would keep the scar
tissue from pulling up and crippling me. The steady pressure as the
truss contracted wasn't anything to do a sense-tape on for replaying at
leisure moments, but at least the cabinet hadn't amputated. I wasn't
complaining.
  
 
  As far as I knew, I was the first recorded survivor of contact with the
Gool—if I survived.
  
 
  I was still a long way from home, and I hadn't yet checked on the
condition of the lifeboat. I glanced toward the entry port. It was
dogged shut. I could see black marks where my burned hand had been at
work.
  
 
  I fumbled my way into a couch and tried to think. In my condition—with
a broken leg and third-degree burns, plus a fractured skull—I
shouldn't have been able to fall out of bed, much less make the trip
from
   
   Belshazzar's
   
  CCC to the boat; and how had I managed to dog that
port shut? In an emergency a man was capable of great exertions. But
running on a broken femur, handling heavy levers with charred fingers
and thinking with a cracked head were overdoing it. Still, I was
here—and it was time to get a call through to TSA headquarters.
  
 
  I flipped the switch and gave the emergency call-letters Col. Ausar
Kayle of Aerospace Intelligence had assigned to me a few weeks before.
It was almost five minutes before the "acknowledge" came through from
the Ganymede relay station, another ten minutes before Kayle's face
swam into view. Even through the blur of the screen I could see the
haggard look.
  
 
  "Granthan!" he burst out. "Where are the others? What happened out
there?" I turned him down to a mutter.
  
 
  "Hold on," I said. "I'll tell you. Recorders going?" I didn't wait for
an answer—not with a fifteen-minute transmission lag. I plowed on:
  
 
  "
   
   Belshazzar
   
  was sabotaged. So was
   
   Gilgamesh
   
  —I think. I got out. I
lost a little skin, but the aid cabinet has the case in hand. Tell the
Med people the drinks are on me."
  
 
  I finished talking and flopped back, waiting for Kayle's reply. On the
screen, his flickering image gazed back impatiently, looking as hostile
as a swing-shift ward nurse. It would be half an hour before I would
get his reaction to my report. I dozed off—and awoke with a start.
Kayle was talking.
  
 
  "—your report. I won't mince words. They're wondering at your role in
the disaster. How does it happen that you alone survived?"
  
 
  "How the hell do I know?" I yelled—or croaked. But Kayle's voice was
droning on:
  
 
  "... you Psychodynamics people have been telling me the Gool may
have some kind of long-range telehypnotic ability that might make it
possible for them to subvert a loyal man without his knowledge. You've
told me yourself that you blacked out during the attack—and came to on
the lifeboat, with no recollection of how you got there.
  
 
  "This is war, Granthan. War against a vicious enemy who strike without
warning and without mercy. You were sent out to investigate the
possibility of—what's that term you use?—hyper-cortical invasion. You
know better than most the risk I'd be running if you were allowed to
pass the patrol line.
  
 
  "I'm sorry, Granthan. I can't let you land on Earth. I can't accept
the risk."
  
 
  "What do I do now?" I stormed. "Go into orbit and eat pills and hope
you think of something? I need a doctor!"
  
 
  Presently Kayle replied. "Yes," he said. "You'll have to enter a
parking orbit. Perhaps there will be developments soon which will make
it possible to ... ah ... restudy the situation." He didn't meet my
eye. I knew what he was thinking. He'd spare me the mental anguish of
knowing what was coming. I couldn't really blame him; he was doing
what he thought was the right thing. And I'd have to go along and
pretend—right up until the warheads struck—that I didn't know I'd
been condemned to death.
  
 
 
  II
  
 
  I tried to gather my wits and think my way through the situation. I
was alone and injured, aboard a lifeboat that would be the focus of a
converging flight of missiles as soon as I approached within battery
range of Earth. I had gotten clear of the Gool, but I wouldn't survive
my next meeting with my own kind. They couldn't take the chance that I
was acting under Gool orders.
  
 
  I wasn't, of course. I was still the same Peter Granthan,
psychodynamicist, who had started out with Dayan's fleet six weeks
earlier. The thoughts I was having weren't brilliant, but they were
mine, all mine....
  
 
  But how could I be sure of that?
  
 
  Maybe there was something in Kayle's suspicion. If the Gool were as
skillful as we thought, they would have left no overt indications of
their tampering—not at a conscious level.
  
 
  But this was where psychodynamics training came in. I had been reacting
like any scared casualty, aching to get home and lick his wounds. But I
wasn't just any casualty. I had been trained in the subtleties of the
mind—and I had been prepared for just such an attack.
  
 
  Now was the time to make use of that training. It had given me one
resource. I could unlock the memories of my subconscious—and see again
what had happened.
  
 
  I lay back, cleared my mind of extraneous thoughts, and concentrated on
the trigger word that would key an auto-hypnotic sequence....
  
 
  Sense impressions faded. I was alone in the nebulous emptiness of a
first-level trance. I keyed a second word, slipped below the misty
surface into a dreamworld of vague phantasmagoric figures milling in
their limbo of sub-conceptualization. I penetrated deeper, broke
through into the vividly hallucinatory third level, where images of
mirror-bright immediacy clamored for attention. And deeper....
  
