"You've got to listen to me, Kayle," I shouted. "I know you think I'm
a Gool robot. But what I have is too big to let you blow it up without
a fight. Matter transmission! You know what that can mean to us. The
concept is too complex to try to describe in words. You'll have to take
my word for it. I can build it, though, using standard components, plus
an infinite-area antenna and a moebius-wound coil—and a few other
things...."
  
 
  I harangued Kayle for a while, and then sweated out his answer. I was
getting close now. If he couldn't see the beauty of my proposal, my
screens would start to register the radiation of warheads any time now.
  
 
  Kayle came back—and his answer boiled down to "no."
  
 
  I tried to reason with him. I reminded him how I had readied myself
for the trip with sessions on the encephaloscope, setting up the
cross-networks of conditioned defensive responses, the shunt circuits
to the decoy pseudo-personality, leaving my volitional ego free. I
talked about subliminal hypnotics and the resilience quotient of the
ego-complex.
  
 
  I might have saved my breath.
  
 
  "I don't understand that psychodynamics jargon, Granthan," he snapped.
"It smacks of mysticism. But I understand what the Gool have done to
you well enough. I'm sorry."
  
 
  I leaned back and chewed the inside of my lip and thought unkind
thoughts about Colonel Ausar Kayle. Then I settled down to solve the
problem at hand.
  
 
  I keyed the chart file, flashed pages from the standard index on the
reference screen, checking radar coverages, beacon ranges, monitor
stations, controller fields. It looked as though a radar-negative boat
the size of mine might possibly get through the defensive net with a
daring pilot, and as a condemned spy, I could afford to be daring.
  
 
  And I had a few ideas.
  
 
 
  III
  
 
  The shrilling of the proximity alarm blasted through the silence. For a
wild moment I thought Kayle had beaten me to the punch; then I realized
it was the routine DEW line patrol contact.
  
 
  "Z four-oh-two, I am reading your IFF. Decelerate at 1.8 gee
preparatory to picking up approach orbit...."
  
 
  The screen went on droning out instructions. I fed them into the
autopilot, at the same time running over my approach plan. The scout
was moving in closer. I licked dry lips. It was time to try.
  
 
  I closed my eyes, reached out—as the Gool mind had reached out to
me—and felt the touch of a Signals Officer's mind, forty thousand
miles distant, aboard the patrol vessel. There was a brief flurry of
struggle; then I dictated my instructions. The Signals Officer punched
keys, spoke into his microphone:
  
 
  "As you were, Z four-oh-two. Continue on present course. At Oh-nineteen
seconds, pick up planetary for re-entry and let-down."
  
 
  I blanked out the man's recollection of what had happened, caught his
belated puzzlement as I broke contact. But I was clear of the DEW line
now, rapidly approaching atmosphere.
  
 
  "Z four-oh-two," the speaker crackled. "This is planetary control. I am
picking you up on channel forty-three, for re-entry and let-down."
  
 
  There was a long pause. Then:
  
 
  "Z four-oh-two, countermand DEW Line clearance! Repeat, clearance
countermanded! Emergency course change to standard hyperbolic code
ninety-eight. Do not attempt re-entry. Repeat: do not attempt re-entry!"
  
 
  It hadn't taken Kayle long to see that I'd gotten past the outer line
of defense. A few more minutes' grace would have helped. I'd play it
dumb, and hope for a little luck.
  
 
  "Planetary, Z four-oh-two here. Say, I'm afraid I missed part of that,
fellows. I'm a little banged up—I guess I switched frequencies on you.
What was that after 'pick up channel forty-three'...?"
  
 
  "Four-oh-two, sheer off there! You're not cleared for re-entry!"
  
 
  "Hey, you birds are mixed up," I protested. "I'm cleared all the way. I
checked in with DEW—"
  
 
  It was time to disappear. I blanked off all transmission, hit the
controls, following my evasive pattern. And again I reached out—
  
 
  A radar man at a site in the Pacific, fifteen thousand miles away, rose
from his chair, crossed the darkened room and threw a switch. The radar
screens blanked off....
  
 
  For an hour I rode the long orbit down, fending off attack after
attack. Then I was clear, skimming the surface of the ocean a few miles
southeast of Key West. The boat hit hard. I felt the floor rise up,
over, buffeting me against the restraining harness.
  
 
  I hauled at the release lever, felt a long moment of giddy
disorientation as the escape capsule separated from the sinking
lifeboat deep under the surface. Then my escape capsule was bobbing on
the water.
  
 
  I would have to risk calling Kayle now—but by voluntarily giving my
position away, I should convince him I was still on our side—and I was
badly in need of a pick-up. I flipped the sending key.
  
 
  "This is Z four-oh-two," I said. "I have an urgent report for Colonel
Kayle of Aerospace Intelligence."
  
 
  Kayle's face appeared. "Don't fight it, Granthan," he croaked. "You
penetrated the planetary defenses—God knows how. I—"
  
 
  "Later," I snapped. "How about calling off your dogs now? And send
somebody out here to pick me up, before I add sea-sickness to my other
complaints."
  
 
  "We have you pinpointed," Kayle cut in. "It's no use fighting it,
Granthan."
  
