I felt cold sweat pop out on my forehead. "You've got to listen,
Kayle," I shouted. "I suppose you've got missiles on the way already.
Call them back! I have information that can win the war—"
  
 
  "I'm sorry, Granthan," Kayle said. "It's too late—even if I could
take the chance you were right."
  
 
  A different face appeared on the screen.
  
 
  "Mr. Granthan, I am General Titus. On behalf of your country, and
in the name of the President—who has been apprised of this tragic
situation—it is my privilege to inform you that you will be awarded
the Congressional Medal of Honor—posthumously—for your heroic effort.
Although you failed, and have in fact been forced, against your will,
to carry out the schemes of the inhuman enemy, this in no way detracts
from your gallant attempt. Mr. Granthan, I salute you."
  
 
  The general's arm went up in a rigid gesture.
  
 
  "Stow that, you pompous idiot!" I barked. "I'm no spy!"
  
 
  Kayle was back, blanking out the startled face of the general.
  
 
  "Goodbye, Granthan. Try to understand...."
  
 
  I flipped the switch, sat gripping the couch, my stomach rising with
each heave of the floating escape capsule. I had perhaps five minutes.
The missiles would be from Canaveral.
  
 
  I closed my eyes, forced myself to relax, reached out....
  
 
  I sensed the distant shore, the hot buzz of human minds at work in the
cities. I followed the coastline, found the Missile Base, flicked
through the cluster of minds.
  
 
  "—
   
   missile on course; do right, baby. That's it, right in the slot.
   
  "
  
 
  I fingered my way through the man's mind and found the control centers.
He turned stiffly from the plotting board, tottered to a panel to slam
his hand against the destruct button.
  
 
  Men fell on him, dragged him back. "—
   
   fool, why did you blow it?
   
  "
  
 
  I dropped the contact, found another, who leaped to the panel,
detonated the remainder of the flight of six missiles. Then I withdrew.
I would have a few minutes' stay of execution now.
  
 
  I was ten miles from shore. The capsule had its own power plant. I
started it up, switched on the external viewer. I saw dark sea, the
glint of star-light on the choppy surface, in the distance a glow on
the horizon that would be Key West. I plugged the course into the
pilot, then leaned back and felt outward with my mind for the next
attacker.
  
 
 
  IV
  
 
  It was dark in the trainyard. I moved along the tracks in a stumbling
walk. Just a few more minutes, I was telling myself.
   
   A few more
minutes and you can lie down ... rest....
   
 
 
  The shadowed bulk of a box car loomed up, its open door a blacker
square. I leaned against the sill, breathing hard, then reached inside
for a grip with my good hand.
  
 
  Gravel scrunched nearby. The beam of a flashlight lanced out, slipped
along the weathered car, caught me. There was a startled exclamation.
I ducked back, closed my eyes, felt out for his mind. There was a
confused murmur of thought, a random intrusion of impressions from the
city all around. It was hard, too hard. I had to sleep—
  
 
  I heard the snick of a revolver being cocked, and dropped flat as a
gout of flame stabbed toward me, the imperative Bam! echoing between
the cars. I caught the clear thought:
  
 
  "God-awful looking, shaved head, arm stuck out; him all right—"
  
 
  I reached out to his mind and struck at random. The light fell, went
out, and I heard the unconscious body slam to the ground like a poled
steer.
  
 
  It was easy—if I could only stay awake.
  
 
  I gritted my teeth, pulled myself into the car, crawled to a dark
corner behind a crate and slumped down. I tried to evoke a personality
fraction to set as a guard, a part of my mind to stay awake and warn
me of danger. It was too much trouble. I relaxed and let it all slide
down into darkness.
  
