 
  GALACTIC GHOST
  
 
  By WALTER KUBILIUS
  
 
  The Flying Dutchman of space was a harbinger
   
  of death. But Willard wasn't superstitions.
   
  He had seen the phantom—and lived.
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Planet Stories Winter 1942.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  The only friend in space Willard had ever known was dying. Dobbin's
lips were parched and his breath came spasmodically. The tips of his
fingers that had so many times caressed the control board of the
   
   Mary
Lou
   
  were now black as meteor dust.
  
 
  "We'll never see Earth again," he whispered feebly, plucked weakly at
the cover.
  
 
  "Nonsense!" Willard broke in hurriedly, hoping that the dying man
would not see through the lie. "We've got the sun's gravity helping
us drift back to Earth! We'll be there soon! You'll get well soon and
we'll start to work again on a new idea of mine...." His voice trailed
helplessly away and the words were lost. It was no use.
  
 
  The sick man did not hear him. Two tears rolled down his cheeks. His
face contorted as he tried to withhold a sob.
  
 
  "To see Earth again!" he said weakly. "To walk on solid ground once
more!"
  
 
  "Four years!" Willard echoed faintly. He knew how his space mate felt.
No man can spend four years away from his home planet, and fail to be
anguished. A man could live without friends, without fortune, but no
man could live without Earth. He was like Anteus, for only the feel of
the solid ground under his feet could give him courage to go among the
stars.
  
 
  Willard also knew what he dared not admit to himself. He, too, like
Dobbin, would never see Earth again. Perhaps, some thousand years from
now, some lonely wanderers would find their battered hulk of a ship in
space and bring them home again.
  
 
  Dobbin motioned to him and, in answer to a last request, Willard lifted
him so he faced the port window for a final look at the panorama of the
stars.
  
 
  Dobbin's eyes, dimming and half closed, took in the vast play of the
heavens and in his mind he relived the days when in a frail craft he
first crossed interstellar space. But for Earth-loneliness Dobbin would
die a happy man, knowing that he had lived as much and as deeply as any
man could.
  
 
  Silently the two men watched. Dobbin's eyes opened suddenly and a
tremor seized his body. He turned painfully and looked at Willard.
  
 
  "I saw it!" his voice cracked, trembling.
  
 
  "Saw what?"
  
 
  "It's true! It's true! It comes whenever a space man dies! It's there!"
  
 
  "In heaven's name, Dobbin," Willard demanded, "What do you see? What is
it?"
  
 
  Dobbin lifted his dark bony arm and pointed out into star-studded
space.
  
 
  "The Ghost Ship!"
  
 
  Something clicked in Willard's memory. He had heard it spoken of in
whispers by drunken space men and professional tellers of fairy tales.
But he had never put any stock in them. In some forgotten corner of
Dobbin's mind the legend of the Ghost Ship must have lain, to come up
in this time of delirium.
  
 
  "There's nothing there," he said firmly.
  
 
  "It's come—for me!" Dobbin cried. He turned his head slowly toward
Willard, tried to say something and then fell back upon the pillow. His
mouth was open and his eyes stared unseeing ahead. Dobbin was now one
with the vanished pioneers of yesterday. Willard was alone.
  
 
  For two days, reckoned in Earth time, Willard kept vigil over the body
of his friend and space mate. When the time was up he did what was
necessary and nothing remained of Harry Dobbin, the best friend he had
ever had. The atoms of his body were now pure energy stored away in the
useless motors of the
   
   Mary Lou
   
  .
  
