 
  GOURMET
  
 
  By ALLEN KIM LANG
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Galaxy Magazine April 1962.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
 
 
   This was the endless problem of all
    
   spaceship cooks: He had to feed the men
    
   tomorrow on what they had eaten today!
   
 
 
 
  Unable to get out to the ballgame and a long way off from the girls,
men on ships think about, talk about, bitch about their food. It's
true that Woman remains a topic of thoughtful study, but discussion
can never replace practice in an art. Food, on the other hand, is a
challenge shipmen face three times a day, so central to their thoughts
that a history of sea-faring can be read from a commissary list.
  
 
  In the days when salt-sea sailors were charting islands and spearing
seals, for example, the fo'c's'le hands called themselves Lobscousers,
celebrating the liquid hash then prominent in the marine menu. The
Limey sailor got the name of the anti-scorbutic citrus squeezed into
his diet, a fruit known to us mariners of a more sophisticated age
only as garnish for our groundside gin-and-tonic. And today we Marsmen
are called Slimeheads, honoring in our title the
   
   Chlorella
   
  and
   
   Scenedesmus
   
  algae that, by filling up the spaces within, open the
road to the larger Space without.
  
 
  Should any groundsman dispute the importance of belly-furniture in
history—whether it be exterminating whales, or introducing syphilis
to the Fiji Islanders, or settling the Australian littoral with
cross-coves from Middlesex and Hampshire—he is referred to the
hundred-and-first chapter of
   
   Moby Dick
   
  , a book spooled in the
amusement tanks of all but the smallest spacers. I trust, however, that
no Marsman will undertake to review this inventory of refreshment more
than a week from groundfall. A catalogue of sides of beef and heads of
Leyden cheese and ankers of good Geneva would prove heavy reading for a
man condemned to snack on the Chlorella-spawn of cis-Martian space.
  
 
  The
   
   Pequod's
   
  crew ate wormy biscuit and salt beef. Nimitz's men won
their war on canned pork and beans. The
   
   Triton
   
  made her underwater
periplus of Earth with a galley stocked with frozen pizza and
concentrated apple-juice. But then, when sailors left the seas for the
skies, a decline set in.
  
 
  The first amenity of groundside existence to be abandoned was decent
food. The earliest men into the vacuum swallowed protein squeezings
from aluminum tubes, and were glad enough to drop back to the
groundsman's diet of steak and fried potatoes.
  
