 
  Well, naturally Kaiser would transmit baby
   
  talk messages to his mother ship! He was—
  
 
  GROWING UP ON BIG MUDDY
  
 
  By CHARLES V. DE VET
  
 
  Illustrated by TURPIN
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Galaxy Science Fiction July 1957.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  Kaiser stared at the tape in his hand for a long uncomprehending
minute. How long had the stuff been coming through in this inane baby
talk? And why hadn't he noticed it before? Why had he had to read this
last communication a third time before he recognized anything unusual
about it?
  
 
  He went over the words again, as though maybe this time they'd read as
they should.
  
 
  OO IS SICK, SMOKY. DO TO BEDDY-BY. KEEP UM WARM. WHEN UM FEELS BETTER,
LET USNS KNOW.
  
 
  SS II
  
 
  Kaiser let himself ease back in the pilot chair and rolled the tape
thoughtfully between his fingers. Overhead and to each side, large
drops of rain thudded softly against the transparent walls of the scout
ship and dripped wearily from the bottom ledge to the ground.
  
 
  "Damn this climate!" Kaiser muttered irrelevantly. "Doesn't it ever do
anything here except rain?"
  
 
  His attention returned to the matter at hand. Why the baby talk? And
why was his memory so hazy? How long had he been here? What had he been
doing during that time?
  
 
  Listlessly he reached for the towel at his elbow and wiped the moisture
from his face and bare shoulders. The air conditioning had gone out
when the scout ship cracked up. He'd have to repair the scout or he
was stuck here for good. He remembered now that he had gone over the
job very carefully and thoroughly, and had found it too big to handle
alone—or without better equipment, at least. Yet there was little or
no chance of his being able to find either here.
  
 
  Calmly, deliberately, Kaiser collected his thoughts, his memories, and
brought them out where he could look at them:
  
 
  The mother ship,
   
   Soscites II
   
  , had been on the last leg of its
planet-mapping tour. It had dropped Kaiser in the one remaining scout
ship—the other seven had all been lost one way or another during the
exploring of new worlds—and set itself into a giant orbit about this
planet that Kaiser had named Big Muddy.
  
 
  The
   
   Soscites II
   
  had to maintain its constant speed; it had no means
of slowing, except to stop, and no way to start again once it did stop.
Its limited range of maneuverability made it necessary to set up an
orbit that would take it approximately one month, Earth time, to circle
a pinpointed planet. And now its fuel was low.
  
 
  Kaiser had that one month to repair his scout or be stranded here
forever.
  
 
  That was all he could remember. Nothing of what he had been doing
recently.
  
 
  A small shiver passed through his body as he glanced once again at the
tape in his hand. Baby talk....
  
