Back on Earth it was a warm, misty spring day—the kind of day unknown
to the planet Mars. Bella and Scribney, superb in new spring outfits,
waited restlessly while the rocket cooled and the passengers recovered
from deceleration.
  
 
  "Look, Scrib!" Bella clutched Scribney's substantial arm. "It's finally
opening."
  
 
  They watched the airlock open and the platform wheel into place. They
watched the passengers descend, looking a trifle dazed.
  
 
  "There he is!" cried Bella. "Why, doesn't he look wonderful! Scrib,
it's amazing! Look at him!
  
 
  And indeed, Harper was stepping briskly downward, looking spry and fit
and years younger. He came across to them actually beaming. It was the
first pleasant expression they had seen on his face in years.
  
 
  "Well, you old dog!" exclaimed Scribney affectionately. "So you did it
again!"
  
 
  Harper smirked. "Yep, I turned a neat little deal. I bought out
Hagerty's Enzymes and staffed the plant with the hotel's robots. Got
both of 'em dirt cheap. Both concerns going bankrupt because they
didn't have sense enough to swap their workers. Feel I owe you a bit
for that tip about enzymes, Scrib, so I made out a block of stock to
you. All right?"
  
 
  "All right?" Scribney gulped. Why, the dried-up little turnip was human
after all. "All right! Yes, sir! But aren't you going to use some of
those robots for office help? Aren't they efficient and all that?"
  
 
  Harper's smile vanished. "Don't even mention such a thing!" he yelped.
"You don't know what you're saying! I lived with those things for
weeks. I wouldn't have one around! Keep 'em in the factory where they
belong!"
  
 
  He glimpsed the composed, wonderfully human face of his secretary,
waiting patiently in the background. "Oh there you are, Smythe." He
turned to his relatives. "Busy day ahead. See you later, folks—"
  
 
  "Same old Harp," observed Scribney. Then he thought of the block of
stock. "What say we celebrate our rise to a position in the syndicate,
honey?"
  
 
  "Wonderful!" She squeezed his arm, and smiling at each other, they left
the port.
  
 
