Brock pushed open the inch-thick metal door beneath a sign that said
"O'Banion's Bar," and I followed him in. We sat down at a table and
ordered drinks when the waiter bustled over. A cop in uniform isn't
supposed to drink, but Brock figures that the head of the Security
Guard ought to be able to get away with a breach of his own rules.
  
 
  We had our drinks in front of us and our cigarettes lit before Brock
opened up with his troubles.
  
 
  "Oak," he said, "I wanted to intercept you before you went to the plant
because I want you to know that there may be trouble."
  
 
  "Yeah? What kind?" Sometimes it's a pain to play ignorant.
  
 
  "Thurston's outfit is trying to oust Ravenhurst from the managership of
Viking and take over the job. Baedecker Metals & Mining Corporation,
which is managed by Baedecker himself, wants to force Viking out of
business so that BM&M can take over Ceres for large-scale processing of
precious metals.
  
 
  "Between the two of 'em, they're raising all sorts of minor hell
around
  [21]
  here, and it's liable to become major hell at any time. And we
can't stand any hell—or sabotage—around this planetoid just now!"
  
 
  "Now wait a minute," I said, still playing ignorant, "I thought we'd
pretty well established that the 'sabotage' of the McGuire series was
Jack Ravenhurst's fault. She was the one who was driving them nuts, not
Thurston's agents."
  
 
  "Perfectly true," he said agreeably. "We managed to block any attempts
of sabotage by other company agents, even though it looked as though we
hadn't for a while." He chuckled wryly. "We went all out to keep the
McGuires safe, and all the time the boss' daughter was giving them the
works." Then he looked sharply at me. "I covered that, of course. No
one in the Security Guard but me knows that Jack was responsible."
  
 
  "Good. But what about the Thurston and Baedecker agents, then?"
  
 
  He took a hefty slug of his drink. "They're around, all right. We have
our eyes on the ones we know, but those outfits are as sharp as we
are, and they may have a few agents here on Ceres that we know nothing
about."
  
 
  "So? What does this have to do with me?"
  
 
  He put his drink on the table. "Oak, I want you to help me." His
onyx-brown eyes, only a shade darker than his skin, looked directly
into my own. "I know it isn't part of your assignment, and you know I
can't afford to pay you anything near what you're worth. It will have
to come out of my
  [22]
  pocket because I couldn't possibly justify it from
operating funds. Ravenhurst specifically told me that he doesn't want
you messing around with the espionage and sabotage problem because he
doesn't like your methods of operation."
  
 
  "And you're going to go against his orders?"
  
 
  "I am. Ravenhurst is sore at you personally because you showed him
that Jack was responsible for the McGuire sabotage. It's an irrational
dislike, and I am not going to let it interfere with my job. I'm going
to protect Ravenhurst's interests to the best of my ability, and that
means that I'll use the best of other people's abilities if I can."
  
 
  I grinned at him. "The last I heard, you were sore at me for blatting
it all over Ceres that Jaqueline Ravenhurst was missing, when she
sneaked aboard McGuire."
  
 
  He nodded perfunctorily. "I was. I still think you should have told me
what you were up to. But you did it, and you got results that I'd been
unable to get. I'm not going to let a momentary pique hang on as an
irrational dislike. I like to think I have more sense than that."
  
 
  "Thanks." There wasn't much else I could say.
  
 
  "Now, I've got a little dough put away; it's not much, but I could
offer you—"
  
 
  I shook my head, cutting him off. "Nope. Sorry, Brock. For two reasons.
In the first place, there would be a conflict of interest. I'm working
for Ravenhurst, and if he doesn't want
  [23]
  me to work for you, then it
would be unethical for me to take the job.
  
 
  "In the second place, my fees are standardized. Oh, I can allow a
certain amount of fluctuation, but I'm not a physician or a lawyer; my
services are
  [24]
  not necessary to the survival of the individual, except
in very rare cases, and those cases are generally arranged through a
lawyer when it's a charity case.
  
 
  "No, colonel, I'm afraid I couldn't
  [25]
  possibly work for you."
  
 
  He thought that over for a long time. Finally, he nodded his head very
slowly. "I see. Yeah, I get your point." He scowled down at his drink.
  
 
  "
   
   But
   
  ," I said, "it would be a pleasure
  [26]
  to work
   
   with
   
  you."
  
 
  He looked up quickly. "How's that?"
  
 
  "Well, let's look at it this way: You can't hire me because I'm already
working for Ravenhurst; I can't hire
  [27]
  you because
   
   you're
   
  working for
Ravenhurst. But since we may need each other, and since we're both
working for Ravenhurst, there would be no conflict of interest if we
co-operate.
  
 
  "Or, to put it another way, I can't take money for any service I may
render you, but you can pay off in services. Am I coming through?"
  
 
  His broad smile made the scars on his face fold in and deepen. "Loud
and clear. It's a deal."
  
 
  I held up a hand, palm toward him. "Ah, ah, ah! There's no 'deal'
involved. We're just old buddies helping each other. This is for
friendship, not business. I scratch your back; you scratch mine. Fair?"
  
 
  "Fair. Come on down to my office; I want to give you a headful of facts
and figures."
  
 
  "Will do. Let me finish my guzzle."
  
