  Transcriber's Note:
  
 This etext was produced from Analog March 1962. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.
  
  ILLUSTRATED
   
  BY
   
  KRENKEL
   
 
 
 
  HIS MASTER'S VOICE
   
  ANALOG SCIENCE FACT · SCIENCE FICTION
   
 
 
  Spaceship McGuire had lots of knowledge—but no wisdom. He was
smart—but incredibly foolish. And, as a natural consequence, tended to
ask questions too profound for any philosopher—questions like "Who are
you?"
  
 
  By RANDALL GARRETT
  
 
 
  I'd been in Ravenhurst's office on the mountain-sized planetoid called
Raven's Rest only twice before. The third time was no better; Shalimar
Ravenhurst was one of the smartest operators in the Belt, but when it
came to personal relationships, he was utterly incompetent. He could
make anyone dislike him without trying.
  
 
  When I entered the office, he was
  [3]
  sitting behind his mahogany desk,
his eyes focused on the operation he was going through with a wineglass
and a decanter. He didn't look up at me as he said:
  
 
  "Sit down, Mr. Oak. Will you have some Madeira?"
  
 
  I decided I might as well observe the pleasantries. There was no point
in my getting nasty until he did. "Thank you, Mr. Ravenhurst, I will."
  
 
  He kept his eyes focused on his work: It isn't easy to pour wine on a
planetoid where the gee-pull is measured in fractions of a centimeter
per second squared. It moves slowly, like ropy molasses, but you have
to be careful not to be fooled by that. The viscosity is just as low
as ever, and if you pour it from any great height, it will go scooting
right out of the glass
  [4]
  again. The momentum it builds up is enough to
make it splash right out again in a slow-motion gush which gets it all
over the place.
  
 
  Besides which, even if it didn't splash, it would take it so long to
fall a few inches that you'd die of thirst waiting for it.
  
 
  Ravenhurst had evolved a technique from long years of practice.
He tilted the glass and the bottle toward each other, their edges
touching, like you do when you're trying to pour beer without putting a
head on it. As soon as the wine wet the glass, the adhesive forces at
work would pull more wine into the wine glass. To get capillary action
on a low-gee asteroid, you don't need a capillary, by any means. The
negative meniscus on the wine was something to see; the first time
you see it, you get the eerie feeling that the glass is spinning and
throwing the wine up against the walls by centrifugal force.
  
 
  I took the glass he offered me (Careful! Don't slosh!) and sipped at
it. Using squirt tubes would have been a hell of a lot easier and
neater, but Ravenhurst liked to do things his way.
  
 
  He put the stopper back in the decanter, picked up his own glass and
sipped appreciatively. Not until he put it back down on the desk again
did he raise his eyes and look at me for the first time since I'd come
in.
  
 
  "Mr. Oak, you have caused me considerable trouble."
  
 
  "I thought we'd hashed all that out, Mr. Ravenhurst," I said, keeping
my voice level.
  
 
  [5]
  
 
  "So had I. But it appears that there were more ramifications to your
action than we had at first supposed." His voice had the texture of
heavy linseed oil.
  
 
  He waited, as if he expected me to make some reply to that. When
I didn't, he sighed slightly and went on. "I fear that you have
inadvertently sabotaged McGuire. You were commissioned to prevent
sabotage, Mr. Oak, and I'm afraid that you abrogated your contract."
  
 
  I just continued to keep my voice calm. "If you are trying to get back
the fee you gave me, we can always take it to court. I don't think
you'd win."
  
 
  "Mr. Oak," he said heavily, "I am not a fool, regardless of what your
own impression may be. If I were trying to get back that fee, I would
hardly offer to pay you another one."
  
 
  I didn't think he was a fool. You don't get into the managerial
business and climb to the top and stay there unless you have brains.
Ravenhurst was smart, all right; it was just that, when it came to
personal relationships, he wasn't very wise.
  
 
  "Then stop all this yak about an abrogated contract and get to the
point," I told him.
  
 
  "I shall. I was merely trying to point out to you that it is through
your own actions that I find myself in a very trying position, and that
your sense of honor and ethics should induce you to rectify the damage."
  
 
  "My honor and ethics are in fine shape," I said, "but my interpretation
of the concepts might not be quite
  [6]
  the same as yours. Get to the
point."
  
 
  He took another sip of Madeira. "The robotocists at Viking tell
me that, in order to prevent any further ... ah ... sabotage by
unauthorized persons, the MGYR-7 was constructed so that, after
activation, the first man who addressed orders to it would thenceforth
be considered its ... ah ... master.
  
 
  "As I understand it, the problem of defining the term 'human being'
unambiguously to a robot is still unsolved. The robotocists felt that
it would be much easier to define a single individual. That would
prevent the issuing of conflicting orders to a robot, provided the
single individual were careful in giving orders himself.
  
 
  "Now, it appears that
   
   you
   
  , Mr. Oak, were the first man to speak to
McGuire after he had been activated. Is that correct?"
  
 
  "Is that question purely rhetorical," I asked him, putting on my best
expression of innocent interest. "Or are you losing your memory?" I had
explained all that to him two weeks before, when I'd brought McGuire
and the girl here, so that Ravenhurst would have a chance to cover up
what had really happened.
  
