Ten minutes later, I was in my vacuum suit, walking across the glaring,
rough-polished rectangle of metal that was the landing field of
Raven's Rest. The sun was near the zenith in the black, diamond-dusted
sky, and the shadow of my flitterboat stood out like an inkblot on
a bridal gown. I climbed in, started the engine, and released the
magnetic anchor that held the little boat to the surface of the
nickel-iron planetoid. I lifted her gently, worked her around until I
was stationary in relation to the spinning planetoid, oriented myself
against the stellar background, and headed toward the first blinker
beacon on my way to Ceres.
  
 
  For obvious economical reasons, it it impracticable to use full-sized
spaceships in the Belt. A flitterboat, with a single gravitoinertial
engine and the few necessities of life—air, some water, and a very
little food—still costs more than a Rolls-Royce
  [11]
  automobile does on
Earth, but there has to be some sort of individual transportation in
the Belt.
  
 
  They can't be used for any great distances because a man can't stay
in a vac suit very long without getting uncomfortable. You have to
hop from beacon to beacon, which means that your
   
   average
   
  velocity
doesn't amount to much, since you spend too much time accelerating
and decelerating. But a flitterboat is enough to get around the
neighborhood in, and that's all that's needed.
  
 
  I got the GM-187 blinker in my sights, eased the acceleration up to one
gee, relaxed to watch the radar screen while I thought over my coming
ordeal with McGuire.
  
 
  Testing spaceships, robotic or any other kind, is strictly not my
business. The sign on the door of my office in New York says:
   
   DANIEL
OAK, Confidential Expediter
   
  ; I'm hired to help other people Get Things
Done. Usually, if someone came to me with the problem of getting a
spaceship test-piloted, I'd simply dig up the best test pilot in the
business, hire him for my client, and forget about everything but
collecting my fee. But I couldn't have refused this case if I'd wanted
to. I'd already been assigned to it by someone a lot more important
than Shalimar Ravenhurst.
  
 
  Every schoolchild who has taken a course in Government Organization and
Function can tell you that the Political Survey Division is a branch of
the System Census Bureau of the UN Government, and that its job is to
evaluate the political activities of
  [12]
  various sub-governments all over
the System.
  
 
  And every one of those poor tykes would be dead wrong.
  
 
  The Political Survey Division
   
   does
   
  evaluate political activity, all
right, but it is the Secret Service of the UN Government. The vast
majority of
  [13]
  the System's citizens don't even know the Government has
a Secret Service. I happen to know only because I'm an agent of the
Political Survey Division.
  
 
  The PSD was vitally interested in the whole McGuire project. Robots of
McGuire's complexity had been built before; the robot that runs the
traffic patterns of the American Eastern Seaboard is just as capable
as McGuire when it comes to handling a tremendous number of variables
and making decisions on them. But that robot didn't have to be given
orders except in extreme emergencies. Keeping a few million cars moving
and safe at the same time is actually pretty routine stuff for a robot.
And a traffic robot isn't given orders verbally; it is given any orders
that may be necessary via teletype by a trained programming technician.
Those orders are usually in reference to a change of routing due to
repair work on the highways or the like. The robot itself can take care
of such emergencies as bad weather or even an accident caused by the
malfunctioning of an individual automobile.
  
 
  McGuire was different. In the first place, he was mobile. He was in
command of a spacecraft. In a sense, he
   
   was
   
  the spacecraft, since it
served him in a way that was analogous to the way a human body serves
the human mind. And he wasn't in charge of millions of objects with a
top velocity of a hundred and fifty miles an hour; he was in charge
of a single object that moved at velocities of thousands of miles per
second. Nor
  [14]
  did he have a set, unmoving highway as his path; his paths
were variable and led through the emptiness of space.
  
 
  Unforeseen emergencies can happen at any time in space, most of them
having to do with the lives of passengers. A cargo ship would be
somewhat less susceptible to such emergencies if there were no humans
aboard; it doesn't matter much to a robot if he has no air in his hull.
  
 
  But with passengers aboard, there may be times when it would be
necessary to give orders—
   
   fast
   
  ! And that means verbal orders, orders
that can be given anywhere in the ship and relayed immediately by
microphone to the robot's brain. A man doesn't have time to run to a
teletyper and type out orders when there's an emergency in space.
  
 
  That meant that McGuire had to understand English, and, since there has
to be feedback in communication, he had to be able to speak it as well.
  
 
  And that made McGuire more than somewhat difficult to deal with.
  
