When I finally caught the beam from Ceres and set my flitterboat down
on the huge landing field that had been carved from the nickel-iron
of the asteroid with a focused sun beam, I was itchy with my own
perspiration and groggy tired. I don't like riding in flitterboats,
sitting on a
  [17]
  bucket seat, astride the drive tube, like a witch on a
broomstick, with nothing but a near-invisible transite hull between me
and the stars, all cooped up in a vac suit. Unlike driving a car, you
can't pull a flitterboat over and take a nap; you have to wait until
you hit the next beacon station.
  
 
  Ceres, the biggest rock in the Belt, is a lot more than just a beacon
station. Like Eros and a few others, it's a city in its own right. And
except for the Government Reservation, Viking Spacecraft owned Ceres,
lock, stock, and mining rights.
  
 
  Part of the reason for Viking's troubles was envy of that ownership.
There were other companies in the Belt that would like to get their
hands on that plum, and there were those who were doing everything
short of cutting throats to get it. The PSD was afraid it might come to
that, too, before very long.
  
 
  Ceres is fifty-eight million cubic miles of nickel-iron, but nobody
would cut her up for that. Nickel-iron is almost exactly as cheap as
dirt on Earth, and, considering shipping costs, Earth soil costs a
great deal more than nickel-iron in the Belt.
  
 
  But, as an operations base, Ceres is second to none. Its surface
gravity averages .0294 Standard Gee, as compared with Earth's .981,
and that's enough to give a slight feeling of weight without unduly
hampering the body with too much load. I weigh just under six pounds
on Ceres, and after I've been there a while, going back to Earth is a
strain that takes a
  [18]
  week to get used to. Kids that are brought up in
the Belt are forced to exercise in a room with a one-gee spin on it at
least an hour a day. They don't like it at first, but it keeps them
from growing up with the strength of mice. And an adult with any sense
takes a spin now and then, too. Traveling in a flitterboat will give
you a one-gee pull, all right, but you don't get much exercise.
  
 
  I parked my flitterboat in the space that had been assigned to me by
Landing Control, and went over to the nearest air-lock dome.
  
 
  After I'd cycled through and had shucked my vac suit, I went into the
inner room to find Colonel Brock waiting for me.
  
 
  "Have a good trip, Oak?" he asked, trying to put a smile on his
scarred, battered face.
  
 
  "I got here alive, if that makes it a good flitterboat trip," I said,
shaking his extended hand.
  
 
  "That's the definition of a good trip," he told me.
  
 
  "Then the question was superfluous. Seriously, what I need is a bath
and some sleep."
  
 
  "You'll get that, but first let's go somewhere where we can talk. Want
a drink?"
  
 
  "I could use one, I guess. Your treat?"
  
 
  "My treat," he said. "Come on."
  
 
  I followed him out and down a ladder to a corridor that led north. By
definition, any asteroid spins toward the east, and all directions
follow from that, regardless of which way the axis may point.
  
 
  [19]
  
 
  Colonel Harrington Brock was dressed in the black-and-gold "union
suit" that was the uniform of Ravenhurst's Security Guard. My own was
a tasteful green, but some of the other people in the public corridor
seemed to go for more flashiness; besides silver and gold, there were
shocking pinks and violent mauves, with stripes and blazes of other
colors.
  
 
  A crowd wearing skin-tight cover-alls might shock the gentle people of
Midwich-on-the-Moor, England, but they are normal dress in the Belt.
You can't climb into a vac suit with bulky clothing on, and, if you
did, you'd hate yourself within an hour, with a curse for every wrinkle
that chafed your skin. And, in the Belt, you never know when you might
have to get into a vac suit fast. In a "safe" area like the tunnels
inside Ceres, there isn't much chance of losing air, but there are
places where no one but a fool would ever be more than ten seconds away
from his vac suit.
  
 
  I read an article by a psychologist a few months back, in which he
claimed that the taste for loud colors in union suits was actually
due to modesty. He claimed that the bright patterns drew attention to
the colors themselves, and away from the base the colors were laid
over. The observer, he said, tends to see the color and pattern of the
suit, rather than the body it clings to so closely. Maybe he's right;
I wouldn't know, not being a psychologist. I
   
   have
   
  spent summers in
nudist resorts, though, and I never noticed anyone painting themselves
with lavender
  [20]
  and chartreuse checks. On the other hand, the people who
go to nudist resorts are a self-screened group. So are the people who
go to the Belt, for that matter, but the type of screening is different.
  
 
  I'll just leave that problem in the hands of the psychologists, and go
on wearing my immodestly quiet solid-color union suits.
  
