My sarcasm didn't faze him in the least. "Rhetorical. It follows that
you are the only man whose orders McGuire will obey."
  
 
  "Your robotocists can change that," I said. This time, I was giving him
my version of "genuine" innocence.
  [7]
  A man has to be a good actor to be
a competent double agent, and I didn't want Ravenhurst to know that I
knew a great deal more about the problem than he did.
  
 
  He shook his head, making his jowls wobble. "No, they cannot. They
realize now that there should be some way of making that change, but
they failed to see that it would be necessary. Only by completely
draining McGuire's memory banks and refilling them with new data can
this bias be eliminated."
  
 
  "Then why don't they do that?"
  
 
  "There are two very good reasons," he said. And there was a shade of
anger in his tone. "In the first place, that sort of operation takes
time, and it costs money. If we do that, we might as well go ahead and
make the slight changes in structure necessary to incorporate some of
the improvements that the robotocists now feel are necessary. In other
words, they might as well go ahead and build the MGYR-8, which is
precisely the thing I hired you to prevent."
  
 
  "It seems you have a point there, Mr. Ravenhurst." He'd hired me
because things were shaky at Viking. If he lost too much more money on
the McGuire experiment, he stood a good chance of losing his position
as manager. If that happened some of his other managerial contracts
might be canceled, too. Things like that can begin to snowball, and
Ravenhurst might find himself out of the managerial business entirely.
  
 
  "But," I went on, "hasn't the additional wasted time already cost you
  [8]
  money?"
  
 
  "It has. I was reluctant to call you in again—understandably enough, I
think."
  
 
  "Perfectly. It's mutual."
  
 
  He ignored me. "I even considered going through with the rebuilding
work, now that we have traced down the source of failure of the first
six models. Unfortunately, that isn't feasible, either." He scowled at
me.
  
 
  "It seems," he went on, "that McGuire refuses to allow his brain to
be tampered with. The self-preservation 'instinct' has come to the
fore. He has refused to let the technicians and robotocists enter his
hull, and he has threatened to take off and leave Ceres if any further
attempts are made to ... ah ... disrupt his thinking processes."
  
 
  "I can't say that I blame him," I said. "What do you want me to do? Go
to Ceres and tell him to submit like a good boy?"
  
 
  "It is too late for that, Mr. Oak. Viking cannot stand any more of
that kind of drain on its financial resources. I have been banking on
the McGuire-type ships to put Viking Spacecraft ahead of every other
spacecraft company in the System." He looked suddenly very grim and
very determined. "Mr. Oak, I am
   
   certain
   
  that the robot ship is the
answer to the transportation problems in the Solar System. For the sake
of every human being in the Solar System, we must get the bugs out of
McGuire!"
  
 
 
   What's good for General Bull-moose is good for everybody
   
  , I quoted
to myself. I'd have said it out loud,
  [9]
  but I was fairly certain that
Shalimar Ravenhurst was not a student of the classics.
  
 
  "Mr. Oak, I would like you to go to Ceres and co-operate with the
robotocists at Viking. When the MGYR-8 is finally built, I want it to
be the prototype for a fast, safe, functional robot spaceship that can
be turned out commercially. You can be of great service, Mr. Oak."
  
 
  "In other words, I've got you over a barrel."
  
 
  "I don't deny it."
  
 
  "You know what my fees are, Mr. Ravenhurst. That's what you'll be
charged. I'll expect to be paid weekly; if Viking goes broke, I don't
want to lose more than a week's pay. On the other hand, if the MGYR-8
is successful, I will expect a substantial bonus."
  
 
  "How much?"
  
 
  "Exactly half of the cost of rebuilding. Half what it would take to
build a Model 8 right now, and taking a chance on there being no bugs
in it."
  
 
  He considered that, looking grimmer than ever. Then he said: "I will
do it on the condition that the bonus be paid off in installments, one
each six months for three years after the first successful commercial
ship is built by Viking."
  
 
  "My lawyer will nail you down on that wording," I said, "but it's a
deal. Is there anything else?"
  
 
  "No."
  
 
  "Then I think I'll leave for Ceres before you break a blood vessel."
  
 
  "You continue to amaze me, Mr. Oak," he said. And the soft oiliness
  [10]
  of
his voice was the oil of vitriol. "Your compassion for your fellowman
is a facet of your personality that I had not seen before. I shall
welcome the opportunity to relax and allow my blood pressure to
subside."
  
 
  I could almost see Shalimar Ravenhurst suddenly exploding and adding
his own touch of color to the room.
  
 
  And, on that gladsome thought, I left. I let him have his small verbal
triumph; if he'd known that I'd have taken on the job for almost
nothing, he'd really have blown up.
  
