Three days later, Tobias Whiting disappeared.
  
 
  The caravan had been making no more than ten or fifteen miles a day.
Their water supply was almost gone but on the fourth day they hoped to
reach an oasis in the desert. Two of the older folks had died of
fatigue. A third was critically ill and there was little that could be
done for him. The food supply was running short, but they could always
slaughter their camels for food and make their way to Oasis City, still
four hundred and some miles away, with nothing but the clothes on their
backs.
  
 
  And then, during the fourth night, Tobias Whiting disappeared, taking
Steve's unicopter. A sentry had heard the low muffled whine of the
turbojets during the night and had seen the small craft take off, but
had assumed Steve had taken it up for some reason. Each day Steve had
done so, reconnoitering for signs of the Kumaji.
  
 
  "But why?" someone asked. "Why?"
  
 
  At first there was no answer. Then a woman whose husband had died the
day before said: "It's no secret Whiting has plenty of money—with the
Kumaji."
  
 
  None of them looked at Mary. She stood there defiantly, not saying
anything, and Steve squeezed her hand.
  
 
  "Now, wait a minute," one of Whiting's friends said.
  
 
  "Wait, nothing." This was Jeremy Gort, who twice had been mayor of the
colony. "I know how Whiting's mind works. He slaved all his life for
that money, that's the way he'll see it. Cantwell, didn't you say the
Kumaji were looking for us, to kill us?"
  
 
  "That's what I was told," Steve said.
  
 
  "All right," Gort went on relentlessly. "Then this is what I figure must
have happened. Whiting got to brooding over his lost fortune and finally
decided he had to have it. So, he went off at night in Cantwell's
'copter, determined to get it. Only catch is, folks, if I know the
Kumaji, they won't just give it to him—not by a long sight."
  
 
  "No?" someone asked.
  
 
  "No sir. They'll trade. For our location. And if Whiting went off like
that without even saying good-bye to his girl here, my guess is he'll
make the trade." His voice reflected some bitterness.
  
