"Mary!" he cried. "My God! Mary...."
  
 
  "We came for you, Dad," she said coldly. "To stop you. To ... to kill
you if necessary."
  
 
  "Mary...."
  
 
  "Oh, Dad, why did you do it? Why?"
  
 
  "We couldn't start all over again, could we? You have a right to live
the sort of life I planned for you. You...."
  
 
  "Whiting," Steve said, "did you tell them yet?"
  
 
  "No. No, I haven't. I have information to trade, sure. But I want to
make sure it's going to the right people. I want to get our...."
  
 
  "Dad! Our money, and all those deaths?"
  
 
  "It doesn't matter now. I—I had changed my mind, Mary. Truly. But now,
now that you're a prisoner, what if I don't talk? Don't you see, they'll
torture you. They'll make you talk. And that way—we get nothing. I
couldn't stand to see them hurt you."
  
 
  "They can do—what they think they have to do. I'll tell them nothing."
  
 
  "You won't have to," Whiting said. "I'll tell them when we reach the
larger settlement. They're taking us there tomorrow, they told me."
  
 
  "Then we've got to get out of here tonight," Steve said.
  
 
  The low sun cast the shadow of their guard against the
   
   thlot
   
  skin wall
of their tent. He was a single man, armed with a long, pike-like weapon.
When darkness came, if the guard were not increased....
  
 
  They were brought a pasty gruel for their supper, and ate in silence and
distaste, ate because they needed the strength. Mary said, "Dad, I don't
want you to tell them anything. Dad, please. If you thought you were
doing it for me...."
  
 
  "I've made up my mind," Tobias Whiting said.
  
 
  Mary turned to Steve, in despair. "Steve," she said. "Steve.
Do—whatever you have to do. I—I'll understand."
  
 
  Steve didn't answer her. Wasn't Whiting right now? he thought. If Steve
silenced him, wouldn't the Kumaji torture them for the information?
Steve could stand up to it perhaps—but he couldn't stand to see them
hurt Mary. He'd talk if they did that....
  
 
  Then silencing Whiting wasn't the answer. But the Kumajis had one
willing prisoner and two unwilling ones. They knew that. If the willing
one yelled for help but the yelling was kept to a minimum so only one
guard, the man outside, came....
  
