The first night, they camped in the lee of low sandhills. The second
night they found a small spring with brackish but drinkable water. On
the third day, having covered half the distance to the Kumaji
settlement, they began to encounter Kumaji patrols, on foot or
   
   thlotback
   
  , the six-legged desert animals running so swiftly over the
sands and so low to the ground that they almost seemed to be gliding.
Steve and Mary hardly spoke. Talk was unnecessary. But slowly a bond
grew between them. Steve liked this slim silent girl who had come out
here with him risking her life although she must have known deep in her
heart that her father had almost certainly decided to turn traitor in
order to regain his fortune.
  
 
  On the fourth day, they spotted the unicopter from a long way off and
made their way toward it. It had come much further than Steve had
expected. With sinking heart he realized that Tobias Whiting, if he
escaped the crash-landing without injury, must surely have reached the
Kumaji encampment by now.
  
 
  "It doesn't seem badly damaged," Mary said.
  
 
  The platform had buckled slightly, the 'copter was tilted over, one of
the rotors twisted, its end buried in sand. Tobias Whiting wasn't there.
  
 
  "No," Steve said. "It's hardly damaged at all. Your father got out of it
all right."
  
 
  "To go—to them?"
  
 
  "I think so, Mary. I don't want to pass judgment until we're sure. I'm
sorry."
  
 
  "Oh, Steve! Steve! What will we do? What
   
   can
   
  we do?"
  
 
  "Find him, if it isn't too late. Come on."
  
 
  "North?"
  
 
  "North."
  
 
  "And if by some miracle we find him?"
  
 
  Steve said nothing. The answer—capture or death—was obvious. But you
couldn't tell that to a traitor's daughter, could you?
  
 
  As it turned out, they did not find Tobias Whiting through their own
efforts. Half an hour after setting out from the unicopter, they were
spotted by a roving band of Kumajis, who came streaking toward them on
their
   
   thlots
   
  . Mary raised her atorifle, but Steve struck the barrel
aside. "They'd kill us," he said. "We can only surrender."
  
 
  They were hobbled and led painfully across the sand. They were taken
that way to a small Kumaji encampment, and thrust within a circular
tent.
  
 
  Tobias Whiting was in there.
  
