  HOME IS WHERE YOU LEFT IT
  
 
  By ADAM CHASE
  
 
  [Transcriber Note: This etext was produced from Amazing Stories February
1957. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  The chance of mass slaughter was their eternal nightmare.
  
 
 
  How black is the blackest treachery? Is the most callous
traitor entitled to mercy? Steve pondered these questions. His decision?
That at times the villain should possibly be spoken of as a hero.
  
 
  Only the shells of deserted mud-brick houses greeted Steve Cantwell when
he reached the village.
  
 
  He poked around in them for a while. The desert heat was searing,
parching, and the Sirian sun gleamed balefully off the blades of Steve's
unicopter, which had brought him from Oasis City, almost five hundred
miles away. He had remembered heat from his childhood here on Sirius'
second planet with the Earth colony, but not heat like this. It was like
a magnet drawing all the moisture out of his body.
  
 
  He walked among the buildings, surprise and perhaps sadness etched on
his gaunt, weather-beaten face. Childhood memories flooded back: the
single well from which all the families drew their water, the mud-brick
house, hardly different from the others and just four walls and a roof
now, in which he'd lived with his aunt after his parents had been killed
in a
   
   Kumaji
   
  raid, the community center where he'd spent his happiest
time as a boy.
  
 
  He went to the well and hoisted up a pailful of water. The winch creaked
as he remembered. He ladled out the water, suddenly very thirsty, and
brought the ladle to his lips.
  
 
  He hurled the ladle away. The water was bitter. Not brackish.
  
 
  Poisoned.
  
 
  He spat with fury, then kneeled and stuffed his mouth with sand, almost
gagging. After a while he spat out the sand too and opened his canteen
and rinsed his mouth. His lips and mouth were paralyzed by contact with
the poison. He walked quickly across the well-square to his aunt's
house. Inside, it was dim but hardly cooler. Steve was sweating, the
saline sweat making him blink. He scowled, not understanding. The table
was set in his aunt's house. A coffeepot was on the stove and last
night's partially-consumed dinner still on the table.
  
 
  The well had been poisoned, the town had been deserted on the spur of
the moment, and Steve had returned to his boyhood home from Earth—too
late for anything.
  
 
  He went outside into the square. A lizard was sunning itself and staring
at him with lidless eyes. When he moved across the square, the lizard
scurried away.
  
 
  "Earthman!" a quavering voice called.
  
 
  Steve ran toward the sound. In the scant shadow of the community center,
a Kumaji was resting. He was a withered old man, all skin and bones and
sweat-stiffened tunic, with enormous red-rimmed eyes. His purple skin,
which had been blasted by the merciless sun, was almost black.
  
 
  Steve held the canteen to his lips and watched his throat working almost
spasmodically to get the water down. After a while Steve withdrew the
canteen and said:
  
 
  "What happened here?"
  
 
  "They're gone. All gone."
  
 
  "Yes, but what happened?"
  
 
  "The Kumaji—"
  
 
  "You're Kumaji."
  
 
  "This is my town," the old man said. "I lived with the Earthmen. Now
they're gone."
  
 
  "But you stayed here—"
  
 
  "To die," the old man said, without self-pity. "I'm too old to flee, too
old to fight, too old for anything but death. More water."
  
