Pouring and tumbling through the Lifo kit, consulting the manual
diligently, Manet concluded that there weren't enough parts left in the
box to go around.
  
 
  The book gave instructions for The Model Mother, The Model Father, The
Model Sibling and others. Yet there weren't parts enough in the kit.
  
 
  He would have to take parts from Ronald or Veronica in order to make
any one of the others. And he could not do that without the Modifier.
  
 
  He wished Trader Tom would return and extract some higher price from
him for the Modifier, which was clearly missing from the kit.
  
 
  Or to get even more for simply repossessing the kit.
  
 
  But Trader Tom would not be back. He came this way only once.
  
 
  Manet thumbed through the manual in mechanical frustration. As he did
so, the solid piece of the last section parted sheet by sheet.
  
 
  He glanced forward and found the headings:
   
   The Final Model
   
  .
  
 
  There seemed something ominous about that finality. But he had paid
a price for the kit, hadn't he? Who knew what price, when it came to
that? He had every right to get everything out of the kit that he
could.
  
 
  He read the unfolding page critically. The odd assortment of
ill-matched parts left in the box took a new shape in his mind and
under his fingers....
  
 
  Manet gave one final spurt from the flesh-sprayer and stood back.
  
 
  Victor was finished. Perfect.
  
 
  Manet stepped forward, lifted the model's left eyelid, tweaked his nose.
  
 
  "Move!"
  
 
  Victor leaped back into the Lifo kit and did a jig on one of the
flesh-sprayers.
  
 
  As the device twisted as handily as good intentions, Manet realized
that it was not a flesh-sprayer but the Modifier.
  
 
  "It's finished!" were Victor's first words. "It's done!"
  
 
  Manet stared at the tiny wreck. "To say the least."
  
 
  Victor stepped out of the oblong box. "There is something you should
understand. I am different from the others."
  
 
  "They all say that."
  
 
  "I am not your friend."
  
 
  "No?"
  
 
  "No. You have made yourself an enemy."
  
 
  Manet felt nothing more at this information than an esthetic pleasure
at the symmetry of the situation.
  
 
  "It completes the final course in socialization," Victor continued. "I
am your adversary. I will do everything I can to defeat you. I have
   
   all
   
  your knowledge.
   
   You
   
  do not have all your knowledge. If you let
yourself know some of the things, it could be used against you. It is
my function to use everything I possibly can against you."
  
 
  "When do you start?"
  
 
  "I've finished. I've done my worst. I have destroyed the Modifier."
  
 
  "What's so bad about that?" Manet asked with some interest.
  
 
  "You'll have Veronica and Ronald and me forever now. We'll never
change. You'll get older, and we'll never change. You'll lose your
interest in New York swing and jet combat and Daniel Boone, and we'll
never change. We don't change and you can't change us for others. I've
made the worst thing happen to you that can happen to any man.
   
   I've
seen that you will always keep your friends.
   
  "
  
