Manet finished the mellow whiskey and looked into the glass. It seemed
to have been polished clean. "What do you have to offer?"
  
 
  "Whatever you want?"
  
 
  Irritably, "How do I know what I want until I know what you have?"
  
 
  "You know."
  
 
  "I know? All right, I know. You don't have it for sale."
  
 
  "Old chap, understand if you please that I do not only
   
   sell
   
  . I
am a trader—Trader Tom. I trade with many parties. There are, for
example ... extraterrestrials."
  
 
  "Folk legend!"
  
 
  "On the contrary,
   
   mon cher
   
  , the only reality it lacks is political
reality. The Assembly could no longer justify their disposition of
the cosmos if it were known they were dealing confiscation without
representation. Come, tell me what you want."
  
 
  Manet gave in to it. "I want to be not alone," he said.
  
 
  "Of course," Trader Tom replied, "I suspected. It is not so unusual,
you know. Sign here. And here. Two copies. This is yours. Thank you so
much."
  
 
  Manet handed back the pen and stared at the laminated card in his hand.
  
 
 
 
  When he looked up from the card, Manet saw the box. Trader Tom was
pushing it across the floor towards him.
  
 
  The box had the general dimensions of a coffin, but it wasn't
wood—only brightly illustrated cardboard. There was a large four-color
picture on the lid showing men, women and children moving through a
busy city street. The red and blue letters said:
  
 
  LIFO
   
 
   The Socialization Kit
   
 
 
  "It is commercialized," Trader Tom admitted with no little chagrin.
"It is presented to appeal to a twelve-year-old child, an erotic,
aggressive twelve-year-old, the typical sensie goer—but that is
reality. It offends men of good taste like ourselves, yet sometimes it
approaches being art. We must accept it."
  
 
  "What's the cost?" Manet asked. "Before I accept it, I have to know the
charges."
  
 
  "You never know the cost. Only your executor knows that. It's the
Trader Tom plan."
  
 
  "Well, is it guaranteed?"
  
 
  "There are no guarantees," Trader Tom admitted. "But I've never had any
complaints yet."
  
 
  "Suppose I'm the first?" Manet suggested reasonably.
  
 
  "You won't be," Trader Tom said. "I won't pass this way again."
  
