Manet knew it all. He had heard it all before.
  
 
  He was so damned sick of hearing about Korean air battles, Daniel
Boone, the literary qualities of ancient sports fiction magazines,
the painting of Norman Rockwell, New York swing,
   
   ad nauseum
   
  . What a
narrow band of interests! With the whole universe to explore in thought
and concept, why did he have to be trapped with such an unoriginal
human being?
  
 
  Of course, Ronald wasn't an original human being. He was a copy.
  
 
  Manet had been interested in the Fabulous Forties—Lt. "Hoot" Gibson,
Sam Merwin tennis stories,
   
   Saturday Evening Post
   
  covers—when he had
first learned of them, and he had learned all about them. He had firm
opinions on all these.
  
 
  He yearned for someone to challenge him—to say that
   
   Dime Sports
   
  had
been nothing but a cheap yellow rag and, why,
   
   Sewanee Review
   
  , there
had been a magazine for you.
  
 
  Manet's only consolidation was that Ronald's tastes were lower than his
own. He patriotically insisted that the American Sabre Jet was superior
to the Mig. He maintained with a straight face that Tommy Dorsey was a
better band man than Benny Goodman. Ronald was a terrific jerk.
  
 
  "Ronald," Manet said, "you are a terrific jerk."
  
 
  Ronald leaped up immediately and led with his right.
  
 
  Manet blocked it deftly and threw a right cross.
  
 
  Ronald blocked it deftly, and drove in a right to the navel.
  
 
  The two men separated and, puffing like steam locomotives passing the
diesel works, closed again.
  
 
  Ronald leaped forward and led with his right.
  
 
  Manet stepped inside the swing and lifted an uppercut to the ledge of
Ronald's jaw.
  
 
  Ronald pinwheeled to the floor.
  
 
  He lifted his bruised head from the deck and worked his reddened mouth.
"Had enough?" he asked Manet.
  
 
  Manet dropped his fists to his sides and turned away. "Yes."
  
 
  Ronald hopped up lightly. "Another checkers, Billy Boy?"
  
 
  "No."
  
 
  "Okay. Anything you want, William, old conquerer."
  
 
  Manet scrunched up inside himself in impotent fury.
  
 
  Ronald was maddeningly co-operative and peaceful. He would even get in
a fist fight to avoid trouble between them. He would do anything Manet
wanted him to do. He was so utterly damned stupid.
  
 
  Manet's eyes orbitted towards the checkerboard.
  
 
  But if he were so much more stupid than he, Manet, why was it that
their checker games always ended in a tie?
  
