Veronica crept up behind Manet and slithered her hands up his back and
over his shoulders. She leaned forward and breathed a moist warmth into
his ear, and worried the lobe with her even white teeth.
  
 
  "Daniel Boone," she sighed huskily, "only killed three Indians in his
life."
  
 
  "I know."
  
 
  Manet folded his arms stoically and added: "Please don't talk."
  
 
  She sighed her instant agreement and moved her expressive hands over
his chest and up to the hollows of his throat.
  
 
  "I need a shave," he observed.
  
 
  Her hands instantly caressed his face to prove that she liked a rather
bristly, masculine countenance.
  
 
  Manet elbowed Veronica away in a gentlemanly fashion.
  
 
  She made her return.
  
 
  "Not now," he instructed her.
  
 
  "Whenever you say."
  
 
  He stood up and began pacing off the dimensions of the compartment.
There was no doubt about it: he had been missing his regular exercise.
  
 
  "Now?" she asked.
  
 
  "I'll tell you."
  
 
  "If you were a jet pilot," Veronica said wistfully, "you would be
romantic. You would grab love when you could. You would never know
which moment would be last. You would make the most of each one."
  
 
  "I'm not a jet pilot," Manet said. "There are no jet pilots. There
haven't been any for generations."
  
 
  "Don't be silly," Veronica said. "Who else would stop those vile North
Koreans and Red China 'volunteers'?"
  
 
  "Veronica," he said carefully, "the Korean War is over. It was finished
even before the last of the jet pilots."
  
 
  "Don't be silly," she snapped. "If it were over, I'd know about it,
wouldn't I?"
  
 
  She would, except that somehow she had turned out even less bright,
less equipped with Manet's own store of information, than Ronald.
Whoever had built the Lifo kit must have had ancient ideas about what
constituted appropriate "feminine" characteristics.
  
 
  "I suppose," he said heavily, "that you would like me to take you back
to Earth and introduce you to Daniel Boone?"
  
 
  "Oh, yes."
  
 
  "Veronica, your stupidity is hideous."
  
 
  She lowered her long blonde lashes on her pink cheeks. "That is a mean
thing to say to me. But I forgive you."
  
 
  An invisible hand began pressing down steadily on the top of his head
until it forced a sound out of him. "Aaaawrraagggh! Must you be so
cloyingly sweet? Do you have to keep taking that? Isn't there any fight
in you at all?"
  
 
  He stepped forward and back-handed her across the jaw.
  
 
  It was the first time he had ever struck a woman, he realized
regretfully. He now knew he should have been doing it long ago.
  
 
  Veronica sprang forward and led with a right.
  
