Manet didn't open the box. He let it fade quietly in the filtered but
still brilliant sunlight near a transparent wall.
  
 
  Manet puttered around the spawning monster, trying to brush the copper
taste of the station out of his mouth in the mornings, talking to
himself, winking at Annie Oakley, and waiting to go mad.
  
 
  Finally, Manet woke up one morning. He lay in the sheets of his bunk,
suppressing the urge to go wash his hands, and came at last to the
conclusion that, after all the delay, he was mad.
  
 
  So he went to open the box.
  
 
  The cardboard lid seemed to have become both brittle and rotten. It
crumbled as easily as ideals. But Manet was old enough to remember the
boxes Japanese toys came in when he was a boy, and was not alarmed.
  
 
  The contents were such a glorious pile of junk, of bottles from old
chemistry sets, of pieces from old Erector sets, of nameless things and
unremembered antiques from neglected places, that it seemed too good to
have been assembled commercially. It was the collection of lifetime.
  
 
  On top of everything was a paperbound book, the size of the
   
   Reader's
Digest
   
  , covered in rippled gray flexiboard. The title was stamped in
black on the spine and cover:
   
   The Making of Friends
   
  .
  
 
  Manet opened the book and, turning one blank page, found the title
in larger print and slightly amplified:
   
   The Making of Friends and
Others
   
  . There was no author listed. A further line of information
stated: "A Manual for Lifo, The Socialization Kit." At the bottom of
the title page, the publisher was identified as: LIFO KIT CO., LTD.,
SYRACUSE.
  
 
  The unnumbered first chapter was headed
   
   Your First Friend
   
  .
  
 
  Before you go further, first find the
   
   Modifier
   
  in your kit. This
is
   
   vital
   
  .
  
 
  He quickly riffled through the pages.
   
   Other Friends, Authority, A
Companion
   
  .... Then
   
   The Final Model
   
  . Manet tried to flip past this
section, but the pages after the sheet labeled
   
   The Final Model
   
  were
stuck together. More than stuck. There was a thick slab of plastic in
the back of the book. The edges were ridged as if there were pages to
this section, but they could only be the tracks of lame ants.
  
 
  Manet flipped back to page one.
  
 
  First find the
   
   Modifier
   
  in your kit. This is
   
   vital
   
  to your entire
experiment in socialization. The
   
   Modifier is Part #A-1
   
  on the Master
Chart.
  
 
  He prowled through the box looking for some kind of a chart. There
was nothing that looked like a chart inside. He retrieved the lid and
looked at its inside. Nothing. He tipped the box and looked at its
outside. Not a thing. There was always something missing from kits.
Maybe even the
   
   Modifier
   
  itself.
  
 
  He read on, and probed and scattered the parts in the long box. He
studied the manual intently and groped out with his free hand.
  
 
  The toe bone was connected to the foot bone....
  
 
 
 
  The Red King sat smugly in his diagonal corner.
  
 
  The Black King stood two places away, his top half tipsy in frustration.
  
 
  The Red King crabbed sideways one square.
  
 
  The Black King pounced forward one space.
  
 
  The Red King advanced backwards to face the enemy.
  
 
  The Black King shuffled sideways.
  
 
  The Red King followed....
  
 
  Uselessly.
  
 
  "Tie game," Ronald said.
  
 
  "Tie game," Manet said.
  
 
  "Let's talk," Ronald said cheerfully. He was always cheerful.
  
 
  Cheerfulness was a personality trait Manet had thumbed out for him.
Cheerful. Submissive. Co-operative. Manet had selected these factors in
order to make Ronald as different a person from himself as possible.
  
 
  "The Korean-American War was the greatest of all wars," Ronald said
pontifically.
  
 
  "Only in the air," Manet corrected him.
  
 
  Intelligence was one of the factors Manet had punched to suppress.
Intelligence. Aggressiveness. Sense of perfection. Ronald couldn't know
any more than Manet, but he could (and did) know less. He had seen to
that when his own encephalograph matrix had programmed Ronald's feeder.
  
 
  "There were no dogfights in Korea," Ronald said.
  
 
  "I know."
  
 
  "The dogfight was a combat of hundreds of planes in a tight area, the
last of which took place near the end of the First World War. The
aerial duel, sometimes inaccurately referred to as a 'dogfight' was not
seen in Korea either. The pilots at supersonic speeds only had time for
single passes at the enemy. Still, I believe, contrary to all experts,
that this took greater skill, man more wedded to machine, than the
leisurely combats of World War One."
  
 
  "I know."
  
 
  "Daniel Boone was still a crack shot at eight-five. He was said to be
warm, sincere, modest, truthful, respected and rheumatic."
  
 
  "I know."
  
