With morning came birds' songs, came dew, came breakfast smells.
The air was sweet with cooking and it was nostalgic, childhoodlike,
uncontaminated.
  
 
  And Extrone stepped out of the tent, fully dressed, surly, letting the
flap slap loudly behind him. He stretched hungrily and stared around
the camp, his eyes still vacant-mean with sleep.
  
 
  "Breakfast!" he shouted, and two bearers came running with a folding
table and chair. Behind them, a third bearer, carrying a tray of
various foods; and yet behind him, a fourth, with a steaming pitcher
and a drinking mug.
  
 
  Extrone ate hugely, with none of the delicacy sometimes affected in his
conversational gestures. When he had finished, he washed his mouth with
water and spat on the ground.
  
 
  "Lin!" he said.
  
 
  His personal bearer came loping toward him.
  
 
  "Have you read that manual I gave you?"
  
 
  Lin nodded. "Yes."
  
 
  Extrone pushed the table away. He smacked his lips wetly. "Very
ludicrous, Lin. Have you noticed that I have two businessmen for
guides? It occurred to me when I got up. They would have spat on me,
twenty years ago, damn them."
  
 
  Lin waited.
  
 
  "Now I can spit on them, which pleases me."
  
 
  "The farn beasts are dangerous, sir," Lin said.
  
 
  "Eh? Oh, yes. Those. What did the manual say about them?"
  
 
  "I believe they're carnivorous, sir."
  
 
  "An alien manual. That's ludicrous, too. That we have the only
information on our newly discovered fauna from an alien manual—and, of
course, two businessmen."
  
 
  "They have very long, sharp fangs, and, when enraged, are capable of
tearing a man—"
  
 
  "An alien?" Extrone corrected.
  
 
  "There's not enough difference between us to matter, sir. Of tearing an
alien to pieces, sir."
  
 
  Extrone laughed harshly. "It's 'sir' whenever you contradict me?"
  
 
  Lin's face remained impassive. "I guess it seems that way. Sir."
  
 
  "Damned few people would dare go as far as you do," Extrone said. "But
you're afraid of me, too, in your own way, aren't you?"
  
 
  Lin shrugged. "Maybe."
  
 
  "I can see you are. Even my wives are. I wonder if anyone can know how
wonderful it feels to have people
   
   all
   
  afraid of you."
  
 
  "The farn beasts, according to the manual...."
  
 
  "You are very insistent on one subject."
  
 
  "... It's the only thing I know anything about. The farn beast, as I
was saying, sir, is the particular enemy of men. Or if you like, of
aliens. Sir."
  
 
  "All right," Extrone said, annoyed. "I'll be careful."
  
 
  In the distance, a farn beast coughed.
  
 
  Instantly alert, Extrone said, "Get the bearers! Have some of them cut
a path through that damn thicket! And tell those two businessmen to get
the hell over here!"
  
 
  Lin smiled, his eyes suddenly afire with the excitement of the hunt.
  
