Extrone narrowed his eyes. "I see by your eyes that you are
envious—that is the word, isn't it?—of my tent."
  
 
  Ri looked away from his face.
  
 
  "Perhaps I'm envious of your reputation as a hunter. You see, I have
never killed a farn beast. In fact, I haven't
   
   seen
   
  a farn beast."
  
 
  Ri glanced nervously around the tent, his sharp eyes avoiding Extrone's
glittering ones. "Few people have seen them, sir."
  
 
  "Oh?" Extrone questioned mildly. "I wouldn't say that. I understand
that the aliens hunt them quite extensively ... on some of their
planets."
  
 
  "I meant in our system, sir."
  
 
  "Of course you did," Extrone said, lazily tracing the crease of his
sleeve with his forefinger. "I imagine these are the only farn beasts
in our system."
  
 
  Ri waited uneasily, not answering.
  
 
  "Yes," Extrone said, "I imagine they are. It would have been a shame if
you had killed the last one. Don't you think so?"
  
 
  Ri's hands worried the sides of his outer garment. "Yes, sir. It would
have been."
  
 
  Extrone pursed his lips. "It wouldn't have been very considerate of you
to—But, still, you gained valuable experience. I'm glad you agreed to
come along as my guide."
  
 
  "It was an honor, sir."
  
 
  Extrone's lip twisted in wry amusement. "If I had waited until it was
safe for me to hunt on an alien planet, I would not have been able to
find such an illustrious guide."
  
 
  "... I'm flattered, sir."
  
 
  "Of course," Extrone said. "But you should have spoken to me about it,
when you discovered the farn beast in our own system."
  
 
  "I realize that, sir. That is, I had intended at the first opportunity,
sir...."
  
 
  "Of course," Extrone said dryly. "Like all of my subjects," he waved
his hand in a broad gesture, "the highest as well as the lowest slave,
know me and love me. I know your intentions were the best."
  
 
  Ri squirmed, his face pale. "We do indeed love you, sir."
  
 
  Extrone bent forward. "
   
   Know
   
  me and love me."
  
 
  "Yes, sir.
   
   Know
   
  you and love you, sir," Ri said.
  
 
  "Get out!" Extrone said.
  
