When it came over the hastily established camp, the rocket was low,
obviously looking for a landing site. It was a military craft, from the
outpost on the near moon, and forward, near the nose, there was the
blazoned emblem of the Ninth Fleet. The rocket roared directly over
Extrone's tent, turned slowly, spouting fuel expensively, and settled
into the scrub forest, turning the vegetation beneath it sere by its
blasts.
  
 
  Extrone sat on an upholstered stool before his tent and spat
disgustedly and combed his beard with his blunt fingers.
  
 
  Shortly, from the direction of the rocket, a group of four high-ranking
officers came out of the forest, heading toward him. They were spruce,
the officers, with military discipline holding their waists in and
knees almost stiff.
  
 
  "What in hell do you want?" Extrone asked.
  
 
  They stopped a respectful distance away. "Sir...." one began.
  
 
  "Haven't I told you gentlemen that rockets frighten the game?" Extrone
demanded, ominously not raising his voice.
  
 
  "Sir," the lead officer said, "it's another alien ship. It was sighted
a few hours ago, off this very planet, sir."
  
 
  Extrone's face looked much too innocent. "How did it get there,
gentlemen? Why wasn't it destroyed?"
  
 
  "We lost it again, sir. Temporarily, sir."
  
 
  "So?" Extrone mocked.
  
 
  "We thought you ought to return to a safer planet, sir. Until we could
locate and destroy it."
  
 
  Extrone stared at them for a space. Then, indifferently, he turned
away, in the direction of a resting bearer. "You!" he said. "Hey! Bring
me a drink!" He faced the officers again. He smiled maliciously. "I'm
staying here."
  
 
  The lead officer licked his firm lower lip. "But, sir...."
  
 
  Extrone toyed with his beard. "About a year ago, gentlemen, there was
an alien ship around here then, wasn't there? And you destroyed it,
didn't you?"
  
 
  "Yes, sir. When we located it, sir."
  
 
  "You'll destroy this one, too," Extrone said.
  
 
  "We have a tight patrol, sir. It can't slip through. But it might try a
long range bombardment, sir."
  
