It was Mia's turn to shrug. "Whoever they were, they couldn't have been
hunters. They'd have kept the secret better."
  
 
  "We didn't do so damned well."
  
 
  "We didn't have a chance," Mia objected. "Everybody and his brother had
heard the rumor that farn beasts were somewhere around here. It wasn't
our fault Extrone found out."
  
 
  "I wish we hadn't shot our guide, then. I wish he was here instead of
us."
  
 
  Mia shook perspiration out of his eyes. "We should have shot our pilot,
too. That was our mistake. The pilot must have been the one who told
Extrone we'd hunted this area."
  
 
  "I didn't think a Club pilot would do that."
  
 
  "After Extrone said he'd hunt farn beasts, even if it meant going to
the alien system? Listen, you don't know.... Wait a minute."
  
 
  There was perspiration on Ri's upper lip.
  
 
  "
   
   I
   
  didn't tell Extrone, if that's what you're thinking," Mia said.
  
 
  Ri's mouth twisted. "I didn't say you did."
  
 
  "Listen," Mia said in a hoarse whisper. "I just thought. Listen. To
hell with how he found out. Here's the point. Maybe he'll shoot us,
too, when the hunt's over."
  
 
  Ri licked his lips. "No. He wouldn't do that. We're not—not just
anybody. He couldn't kill us like that. Not even
   
   him
   
  . And besides,
why would he want to do that? It wouldn't do any good to shoot us. Too
many people already know about the farn beasts. You said that yourself."
  
 
  Mia said, "I hope you're right." They stood side by side, studying the
blast area in silence. Finally, Mia said, "We better be getting back."
  
 
  "What'll we tell him?"
  
 
  "That we saw tracks. What else can we tell him?"
  
 
  They turned back along their trail, stumbling over vines.
  
 
  "It gets hotter at sunset," Ri said nervously.
  
 
  "The breeze dies down."
  
 
  "It's screwy. I didn't think farn beasts had this wide a range. There
must be a lot of them, to be on both sides of the ridge like this."
  
 
  "There may be a pass," Mia said, pushing a vine away.
  
 
  Ri wrinkled his brow, panting. "I guess that's it. If there were a lot
of them, we'd have heard something before we did. But even so, it's
damned funny, when you think about it."
  
 
  Mia looked up at the darkening sky. "We better hurry," he said.
  
