 
  HUNT the HUNTER
  
 
  BY KRIS NEVILLE
  
 
  Illustrated by ELIZABETH MacINTYRE
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Galaxy Science Fiction June 1951.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  Of course using live bait is the best
   
  way to lure dangerous alien animals ...
   
  unless it turns out that you are the bait!
  
 
 
  "We're somewhat to the south, I think," Ri said, bending over the crude
field map. "That ridge," he pointed, "on our left, is right here." He
drew a finger down the map. "It was over here," he moved the finger,
"over the ridge, north of here, that we sighted them."
  
 
  Extrone asked, "Is there a pass?"
  
 
  Ri looked up, studying the terrain. He moved his shoulders. "I don't
know, but maybe they range this far. Maybe they're on this side of the
ridge, too."
  
 
  Delicately, Extrone raised a hand to his beard. "I'd hate to lose a day
crossing the ridge," he said.
  
 
  "Yes, sir," Ri said. Suddenly he threw back his head. "Listen!"
  
 
  "Eh?" Extrone said.
  
 
  "Hear it? That cough? I think that's one, from over there. Right up
ahead of us."
  
 
  Extrone raised his eyebrows.
  
 
  This time, the coughing roar was more distant, but distinct.
  
 
  "It is!" Ri said. "It's a farn beast, all right!"
  
 
  Extrone smiled, almost pointed teeth showing through the beard. "I'm
glad we won't have to cross the ridge."
  
 
  Ri wiped his forehead on the back of his sleeve. "Yes, sir."
  
 
  "We'll pitch camp right here, then," Extrone said. "We'll go after it
tomorrow." He looked at the sky. "Have the bearers hurry."
  
 
  "Yes, sir."
  
 
  Ri moved away, his pulse gradually slowing. "You, there!" he called.
"Pitch camp, here!"
  
 
  He crossed to Mia, who, along with him, had been pressed into Extrone's
party as guides. Once more, Ri addressed the bearers, "Be quick, now!"
And to Mia, "God almighty, he was getting mad." He ran a hand under his
collar. "It's a good thing that farn beast sounded off when it did. I'd
hate to think of making him climb that ridge."
  
 
  Mia glanced nervously over his shoulder. "It's that damned pilot's
fault for setting us down on this side. I told him it was the other
side. I told him so."
  
 
  Ri shrugged hopelessly.
  
 
  Mia said, "I don't think he even saw a blast area over here. I think he
wanted to get us in trouble."
  
 
  "There shouldn't be one. There shouldn't be a blast area on this side
of the ridge, too."
  
 
  "That's what I mean. The pilot don't like businessmen. He had it in for
us."
  
 
  Ri cleared his throat nervously. "Maybe you're right."
  
 
  "It's the Hunting Club he don't like."
  
 
  "I wish to God I'd never heard of a farn beast," Ri said. "At least,
then, I wouldn't be one of his guides. Why didn't he hire somebody
else?"
  
