I didn't exactly talk back, but in the queer way of the dream, I
   
   thought
   
  objections. I was in my thirties, at the mid-point of my
life, and the whole of that life had been spent under the State. I knew
no other way to act. Suppressing what little individuality I might
have was, for me, a way of survival. I was chockful of prescribed,
stereotyped reactions, and I held onto them even when something within
me told me what they were. This wasn't easy, this breaking away, not
even this slight departure from the secure, camouflaged norm....
  
 
  "
   
   The woman, Lara, attracts you
   
  ," said the voice.
  
 
  I suppose at that point I twitched or rolled in my sleep. Yes, the
voice was right, the woman Lara attracted me. So much that I ached with
it.
  
 
  "
   
   Take her. Find a way. When you succeed in changing your name, and
know that you can do things, then find a way. There will be a way.
   
  "
  
 
  The idea at once thrilled and frightened me.
  
 
  I woke writhing and in a sweat again.
  
 
  It was morning.
  
 
  I dressed and headed for the jetcopter stage and the ship for Center
One.
  
 
  The ship was comfortable and departed on time, a transport with seats
for about twenty passengers. I sat near the tail and moodily busied
myself watching the gaunt brown earth far below. Between Centers there
was mostly desert, only occasional patches of green. Before the atomic
decade, I had heard, nearly all the earth was green and teemed with
life ... birds, insects, animals, people, too. It was hard rock and
sand now, with a few scrubs hanging on for life. The pre-atomics, who
hadn't mastered synthesization, would have a hard time scratching
existence from the earth today.
  
 
  I tried to break the sad mood, and started to look around at some of
the other passengers. That was when I first noticed the prisoners
in the forward seats. Man and woman, they were, a youngish, rather
non-descript couple, thin, very quiet. They were manacled and two
Deacons sat across from them. The Deacons' backs were turned to me and
I could see the prisoners' faces.
  
 
  They had curious faces. Their eyes were indescribably sad, and yet
their lips seemed to be ready to smile at any moment.
  
 
  They were holding hands, not seeming to care about this vulgar
emotional display.
  
 
  I had the sudden crazy idea that Lara and I were sitting there, holding
hands like that, nonconforming in the highest, and that we were
wonderfully happy. Our eyes were sad too, but we were really happy,
quietly happy, and that was why our lips stayed upon the brink of a
smile.
  
