You remember renumbering. Two years ago. You remember how it was then;
how everybody looked forward to his new designation, and how everybody
made jokes about the way the letters came out, and how all the records
were for a while fouled up beyond recognition.
  
 
  The telecomics kidded renumbering. One went a little too far and
they psycho-scanned him and then sent him to Marscol as a dangerous
nonconform.
  
 
  If you were disappointed with your new designation, you didn't
complain. You didn't want a sudden visit from the Deacons during the
night.
  
 
  There had to be renumbering. We all understood that. With the
population of Northem already past two billion, the old designations
were too clumsy. Renumbering was efficient. It contributed to the good
of Northem. It helped advance the warless struggle with Southem.
  
 
  The equator is the boundary. I understand that once there was
a political difference and that the two superstates sprawled
longitudinally, not latitudinally, over the globe. Now they are pretty
much the same. There is the truce, and they are both geared for war.
They are both efficient states, as tightly controlled as an experiment
with enzymes, as microsurgery, as the temper of a diplomat.
  
 
  We were renumbered, then, in Northem. You know the system: everybody
now has six digits and an additional prefix or suffix of four letters.
Stateleader, for instance, has the designation AAAA-111/111. Now, to
address somebody by calling off four letters is a little clumsy. We try
to pronounce them when they are pronounceable. That is, no one says to
Stateleader, "Good morning, A-A-A-A." They say, "Good morning, Aaaa."
  
 
  Reading the last quote, I notice a curious effect. It says what I feel.
Of course I didn't feel that way on that particular morning. I was
still conformal; the last thing in my mind was that I would infract and
be psycho-scanned.
  
 
  Four letters then, and in many cases a pronounceable four letter word.
  
 
  A four letter word.
  
 
  Yes, you suspect already. You know what a four letter word can be.
  
 
  Mine was.
  
 
  It was unspeakable.
  
 
  The slight weight on my forehead reminded me that I still wore my
sleep-learner. I'd been studying administrative cybernetics, hoping to
qualify in that field, although it was a poor substitute for a space
drive expert. I removed the band and stepped across the room and
turned off the oscillator. I went back to my egg and my bitter memories.
  
 
  I will never forget the first day I received my new four letter
combination and reported it to my chief, as required. I was unthinkably
embarrassed. He didn't say anything. He just swallowed and choked
and became crimson when he saw it. He didn't dare pass it to his
secretarial engineer; he went to the administrative circuits and
registered it himself.
  
 
  I can't blame him for easing me out. He was trying to run an efficient
organization, after all, and no doubt I upset its efficiency. My work
was important—magnetic mechanics was the only way to handle quanta
reaction, or the so-called non-energy drive, and was therefore the
answer to feasible space travel beyond our present limit of Mars—and
there were frequent inspection tours by Big Wheels and Very Important
Persons.
  
 
  Whenever anyone, especially a woman, asked my name, the embarrassment
would become a crackling electric field all about us. The best tactic
was just not to answer.
  
