Numbering and Identity wasn't hard to find. I took the shaft to the
proper level and then it was only a walk of a few hundred yards through
the glowlit corridors.
  
 
  N. & I. turned out to be a big room, somewhat circular, very
high-ceilinged, with banks of cyb controls covering the upper walls.
Narrow passageways, like spokes, led off in several directions. There
was an information desk in the center of the room.
  
 
  I looked that way and my heart went into free fall.
  
 
  There was a girl at the information desk. An exceptionally attractive
girl. She was well within the limits of acceptable standard, and her
features were even enough, and her hair a middle blonde—but she had
something else. Hard to describe. It was a warmth, a buoyancy, a sense
of life and intense animation. It didn't exactly show; it radiated. It
seemed to sing out from her clear complexion, from her figure, which
even a tunic could not hide, from everything about her.
  
 
  And if I were to state my business, I would have to tell her my name.
  
 
  I almost backed out right then. I stopped momentarily. And then common
sense took hold and I realized that if I were to go through with this
thing, here would be only the first of a long series of embarrassments
and discomforts. It had to be done.
  
 
  I walked up to the desk and the girl turned to face me, and I could
have sworn that a faint smile crossed her lips. It was swift, like the
shadow of a bird across one of the lawns in one of the great parks
topside. Very non-standard. Yet I wasn't offended; if anything, I felt
suddenly and disturbingly pleased.
  
 
  "What information is desired?" she asked. Her voice was standard—or
was it?
  
 
  Again I had the feeling of restrained warmth.
  
 
  I used colloquial. "I want to get the dope on State Serial
designations, how they're assigned and so forth. Especially how they
might be changed."
  
 
  She put a handsteno on the desk top and said, "Name? Address? Post?"
  
 
  I froze. I stood there and stared at her.
  
 
  She looked up and said, "Well?"
  
 
  "I—er—no post at present. N/P status."
  
 
  Her fingers moved on the steno.
  
 
  I gave her my address and she recorded that.
  
 
  Then I paused again.
  
 
  She said, "And your name?"
  
 
  I took a deep breath and told her.
  
 
  I didn't want to look into her eyes. I wanted to look away, but I
couldn't find a decent excuse to. I saw her eyes become wide and
noticed for the first time that they were a warm gray, almost a mouse
color. I felt like laughing at that irrelevant observation, but more
than that I felt like turning and running. I felt like climbing and
dashing all over the walls like a frustrated cat and yelling at the
top of my lungs. I felt like anything but standing there and looking
stupid, meeting her stare—
  
