"Well," McGill said, "nothing you've told me is impossible or
supernatural. Just very, very improbable. In fact, the odds against
that poker game alone would lead me to suspect Nat, well as I know him.
It's all those other things...."
  
 
  He got up and walked over to the window and looked at the hot twilight
while I waited. Then he turned around; he had a look of concern.
  
 
  "Alec, you're a reasonable guy, so I don't think you'll take offense at
what I'm going to say. What you have told me is so impossibly unlikely,
and the odds against it so astronomical, that I must take the view that
you're either stringing me or you're subject to a delusion." I started
to get up and expostulate, but he motioned me back. "I know, but don't
you see that that is far more likely than...." He stopped and shook
his head. Then he brightened. "I have an idea. Maybe we can have a
demonstration."
  
 
  He thought for a tense minute and snapped his fingers. "Have you any
change on you?"
  
 
  "Why, yes," I said. "Quite a bit." I reached into my pocket. There
must have been nearly two dollars in silver and pennies. "Do you think
they'll each have the same date, perhaps?"
  
 
  "Did you accumulate all that change today?"
  
 
  "No. During the week."
  
 
  He shook his head. "In that case, no. Discounting the fact that you
could have prearranged it, if my dim provisional theory is right, that
would be
   
   actually
   
  impossible. It would involve time-reversal. I'll
tell you about it later. No, just throw down the change. Let's see if
they all come up heads."
  
 
  I moved away from the carpet and tossed the handful of coins onto the
floor. They clattered and bounced—and bounced together—and stacked
themselves into a neat pile.
  
 
  I looked at McGill. His eyes were narrowed. Without a word, he took a
handful of coins from his own pocket and threw them.
  
 
  These coins didn't stack. They just fell into an exactly straight line,
the adjacent ones touching.
  
 
  "Well," I said, "what more do you want?"
  
 
  "Great Scott," he said, and sat down. "I suppose you know that
there are two great apparently opposite principles governing the
Universe—random and design. The sands on the beach are an example
of random distribution and life is an example of design. The motions
of the particles of a gas are what we call random, but there are so
many of them, we treat them statistically and derive the Second Law of
Thermodynamics—quite reliable. It isn't theoretically hard-and-fast;
it's just a matter of extreme probability. Now life, on the other
hand, seems not to depend on probability at all; actually, it goes
against it. Or you might say it is certainly not an accidental
manifestation."
  
 
  "Do you mean," I asked in some confusion, "that some form of life is
controlling the coins and—the other things?"
  
