As I walked across to Madison Avenue, I passed a big excavation where
they were getting ready to put up a new office building. There was the
usual crowd of buffs watching the digging machines and, in particular,
a man with a pneumatic drill who was breaking up some hard-packed clay.
While I looked, a big lump of it fell away, and for an instant I was
able to see something that looked like a chunk of dirty glass, the size
of an old-fashioned hatbox. It glittered brilliantly in the sunlight,
and then his chattering drill hit it.
  
 
  There was a faint bang and the thing disintegrated. It knocked him on
his back, but he got right up and I realized he was not hurt. At the
moment of the explosion—if so feeble a thing can be called one—I
felt something sting my face and, on touching it, found blood on my
hand. I mopped at it with my handkerchief but, though slight, the
bleeding would not stop, so I went into a drugstore and bought some
pink adhesive which I put on the tiny cut. When I got to the studio, I
found that I had missed the story conference.
  
 
  During the day, by actual count, I heard the phrase "I'm just
spitballing" eight times, and another Madison Avenue favorite,
"The whole ball of wax," twelve times. However, my story had been
accepted without change because nobody had noticed my absence from the
conference room. There you have what is known as the Advertising World,
the Advertising game or the advertising racket, depending upon which
rung of the ladder you have achieved.
  
 
  The subway gave a repeat performance going home, and as I got to the
apartment house we live in, the cop on the afternoon beat was standing
there talking to the doorman.
  
 
  He said, "Hello, Mr. Graham. I guess you must have just have missed it
at your office building." I looked blank and he explained, "We just
heard it a little while ago: all six elevators in your building jammed
at the same time. Sounds crazy. I guess you just missed it."
  
 
  Anything can happen in advertising, I thought. "That's right, Danny, I
just missed it," I said, and went on in.
  
 
  Psychiatry tells us that some people are accident-prone; I, on the
other hand, seemed recently to be coincidence-prone, fluke-happy, and
except for the alarm clock, I'd had no control over what had been going
on.
  
 
  I went into our little kitchen to make a drink and reread the
directions Molly had left, telling me how to get along by myself until
she got back from her mother's in Oyster Bay, a matter of ten days.
How to make coffee, how to open a can, whom to call if I took sick and
such. My wife used to be a trained nurse and she is quite convinced
that I cannot take a breath without her. She is right, but not for the
reasons she supposes.
  
 
  I opened the refrigerator to get some ice and saw another notice: "When
you take out the Milk or Butter, Put it Right Back. And Close the Door,
too."
  
 
  Intimidated, I took my drink into the living room and sat down in
front of the typewriter. As I stared at the novel that was to liberate
me from Madison Avenue, I noticed a mistake and picked up a pencil.
When I put it down, it rolled off the desk, and with my eyes on the
manuscript, I groped under the chair for it. Then I looked down. The
pencil was standing on its end.
  
