McGill went over and they discussed the problem in undertones. Finally
the man left and Molly called her mother to reassure her. McGill tried
to explain to me what had happened with the phone.
  
 
  "You must have joggled something loose. And then you replaced the
receiver in such a way that the contact wasn't quite open."
  
 
  "But for Pete's sake, Molly says the calls were going on for a long
time! I phoned you only a short time ago and it must have taken her
nearly two hours to get here from Oyster Bay."
  
 
  "Then you must have done it twice and the vibrations in the
floor—something like that—just happened to cause the right induction
impulses. Yes, I know how you feel," he said, seeing my expression.
"It's beginning to bear down."
  
 
  Molly was through telephoning and suggested going out for dinner. I was
so pleased to see her that I'd forgotten all about being hungry.
  
 
  "I'm in no mood to cook," she said. "Let's get away from all this."
  
 
  McGill raised an eyebrow. "If all this, as you call it, will let us."
  
 
  In the lobby, we ran into Nat, looking smug in a journalistic way.
  
 
  "I've been put on the story—who could be better?—I live here. So far,
I don't quite get what's been happening. I've been talking to Danny,
but he didn't say much. I got the feeling he thinks you're involved in
some mystical, Hibernian way. Hello, McGill, what's with you?"
  
 
  "He's got a theory," said Molly. "Come and eat with us and he'll tell
you all about it."
  
 
  Since we decided on an air-conditioned restaurant nearby on Sixth
Avenue, we walked. The jam of cars didn't seem to be any less than
before and we saw Danny again. He was talking to a police lieutenant,
and when he caught sight of us, he said something that made the
lieutenant look at us with interest. Particularly at me.
  
 
  "If you want your umbrella, Mrs. Graham," Danny said, "it's at the
station house. What there's left of it, that is."
  
 
  Molly thanked him and there was a short pause, during which I felt
the speculative regard of the lieutenant. I pulled out a packet of
cigarettes, which I had opened, as always, by tearing off the top. I
happened to have it upside down and all the cigarettes fell out. Before
I could move my foot to obliterate what they had spelled out on the
sidewalk, the two cops saw it. The lieutenant gave me a hard look, but
said nothing. I quickly kicked the insulting cigarettes into the gutter.
  
 
  When we got to the restaurant, it was crowded but cool—although it
didn't stay cool for long. We sat down at a side table near the door
and ordered Tom Collinses as we looked at the menu. Sitting at the
next table were a fat lady, wearing a very long, brilliant green
evening gown, and a dried-up sour-looking man in a tux. When the waiter
returned, they preempted him and began ordering dinner fussily: cold
cuts for the man, and vichyssoise, lobster salad and strawberry parfait
for the fat lady.
  
 
  I tasted my drink. It was most peculiar; salt seemed to have been used
instead of sugar. I mentioned this and my companions tried theirs, and
made faces.
  
