There, I thought to myself, is that one chance in a million we hear
about, and picked up the pencil. I turned back to my novel and drank
some of the highball in hopes of inspiration and surcease from the
muggy heat, but nothing came. I went back and read the whole chapter
to try to get a forward momentum, but came to a dead stop at the last
sentence.
  
 
  Damn the heat, damn the pencil, damn Madison Avenue and advertising.
My drink was gone and I went back to the kitchen and read Molly's
notes again to see if they would be like a letter from her. I noticed
one that I had missed, pinned to the door of the dumbwaiter: "Garbage
picked up at 6:30 AM so the idea is to Put it Here the Night Before. I
love you." What can you do when the girl loves you?
  
 
  I made another drink and went and stared out of the living room window
at the roof opposite. The Sun was out again and a man with a stick was
exercising his flock of pigeons. They wheeled in a circle, hoping to be
allowed to perch, but were not allowed to.
  
 
  Pigeons fly as a rule in formation and turn simultaneously, so that
their wings all catch the sunlight at the same time. I was thinking
about this decorative fact when I saw that as they were making a turn,
they seemed to bunch up together. By some curious chance, they all
wanted the same place in the sky to turn in, and several collided and
fell.
  
 
  The man was as surprised as I and went to one of the dazed birds and
picked it up. He stood there shaking his head from side to side,
stroking its feathers.
  
 
  My speculations about this peculiar aerial traffic accident were
interrupted by loud voices in the hallway. Since our building is
usually very well behaved, I was astonished to hear what sounded like
an incipient free-for-all, and among the angry voices I recognized that
of my neighbor, Nat, a very quiet guy who works on a newspaper and has
never, to my knowledge, given wild parties, particularly in the late
afternoon.
  
 
  "You can't say a thing like that to me!" I heard him shout. "I tell you
I got that deck this afternoon and they weren't opened till we started
to play!"
  
 
  Several other loud voices started at the same time.
  
 
  "Nobody gets five straight-flushes in a row!"
  
 
  "Yeah, and only when you were dealer!"
  
 
  The tone of the argument was beginning to get ugly, and I opened the
door to offer Nat help if he needed it. There were four men confronting
him, evidently torn between the desire to make an angry exit and the
impulse to stay and beat him up. His face was furiously red and he
looked stunned.
  
 
  "Here!" he said, holding out a deck of cards, "For Pete's sake, look at
'em yourselves if you think they're marked!"
  
 
  The nearest man struck them up from his hand. "Okay, Houdini! So
they're not marked! All I know is five straight...."
  
 
  His voice trailed away. He and the others stared at the scattered cards
on the floor. About half were face down, as might be expected, and the
rest face up—all red.
  
