 
  I am a Nucleus
  
 
  By STEPHEN BARR
  
 
  Illustrated by GAUGHAN
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Galaxy Science Fiction February 1957.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  No doubt whatever about it, I had the Indian
   
  sign on me ... my comfortably untidy world had
   
  suddenly turned into a monstrosity of order!
  
 
 
  When I got home from the office, I was not so much tired as beaten
down, but the effect is similar. I let myself into the apartment, which
had an absentee-wife look, and took a cold shower. The present downtown
temperature, according to the radio, was eighty-seven degrees, but
according to my Greenwich Village thermometer, it was ninety-six. I got
dressed and went into the living room, and wished ardently that my
wife Molly were here to tell me why the whole place looked so woebegone.
  
 
  What do they do, I asked myself, that I have left undone? I've vacuumed
the carpet, I've dusted and I've straightened the cushions.... Ah! The
ashtrays. I emptied them, washed them and put them back, but still the
place looked wife-deserted.
  
 
  It had been a bad day; I had forgotten to wind the alarm clock, so I'd
had to hurry to make a story conference at one of the TV studios I
write for. I didn't notice the impending rain storm and had no umbrella
when I reached the sidewalk, to find myself confronted with an almost
tropical downpour. I would have turned back, but a taxi came up and a
woman got out, so I dashed through the rain and got in.
  
 
  "Madison and Fifty-fourth," I said.
  
 
  "Right," said the driver, and I heard the starter grind, and then go
on grinding. After some futile efforts, he turned to me. "Sorry, Mac.
You'll have to find another cab. Good hunting."
  
 
  If possible, it was raining still harder. I opened my newspaper over
my hat and ran for the subway: three blocks. Whizzing traffic held
me up at each crossing and I was soaked when I reached the platform,
just in time to miss the local. After an abnormal delay, I got one
which exactly missed the express at Fourteenth Street. The same thing
happened at both ends of the crosstown shuttle, but I found the rain
had stopped when I got out at Fifty-first and Lexington.
  
