He shook his head. "No. All I mean is that improbable things usually
have improbable explanations. When I see a natural law being broken,
I don't say to myself, 'Here's a miracle.' I revise my version of the
book of rules. Something—I don't know what—is going on, and it seems
to involve probability, and it seems to center around you. Were you
still in that building when the elevators stuck? Or near it?"
  
 
  "I guess I must have been. It happened just after I left."
  
 
  "Hm. You're the center, all right. But why?"
  
 
  "Center of what?" I asked. "I feel as though I were the center of an
electrical storm. Something has it in for me!"
  
 
  McGill grinned. "Don't be superstitious. And especially don't be
anthropomorphic."
  
 
  "Well, if it's the opposite of random, it's got to be a form of life."
  
 
  "On what basis? All we know for certain is that random motions are
being rearranged. A crystal, for example, is not life, but it's a
non-random arrangement of particles.... I wonder." He had a faraway,
frowning look.
  
 
  I was beginning to feel hungry and the drinks had worn off.
  
 
  "Let's go out and eat," I said, "There's not a damn thing in the
kitchen and I'm not allowed to cook. Only eggs and coffee."
  
 
  We put on our hats and went down to the street. From either end, we
could hear wrecking trucks towing away the stalled cars. There were,
by this time, a number of harassed cops directing the maneuver and we
heard one of them say to Danny, "I don't know what the hell's going
on around here. Every goddam car's got something the matter with it.
They can't none of them back out for one reason or another. Never seen
anything like it."
  
 
  Near us, two pedestrians were doing a curious little two-step as they
tried to pass one another; as soon as one of them moved aside to let
the other pass, the other would move to the same side. They both had
embarrassed grins on their faces, but before long their grins were
replaced by looks of suspicion and then determination.
  
 
  "All right, smart guy!" they shouted in unison, and barged ahead,
only to collide. They backed off and threw simultaneous punches
which met in mid-air. Then began one of the most remarkable bouts
ever witnessed—a fight in which fist hit fist but never anything
else, until both champions backed away undefeated, muttering identical
excuses and threats.
  
