Danny appeared at that moment. His face was dripping. "You all right,
Mr. Graham?" he asked. "I don't know what's going on around here, but
ever since I came on this afternoon, things are going crazy. Bartley!"
he shouted—he could succeed as a hog-caller. "Bring those dames over
here!"
  
 
  Three women in a confused wrangle, with their half-open umbrellas
intertwined, were brought across the street, which meant climbing over
fenders. Bartley, a fine young patrolman, seemed self-conscious; the
ladies seemed not to be.
  
 
  "All right, now, Mrs. Mac-Philip!" one of them said. "Leave go of my
umbrella and we'll say no more about it!"
  
 
  "And so now it's Missus Mac-Philip, is it?" said her adversary.
  
 
  The third, a younger one with her back turned to us, her umbrella also
caught in the tangle, pulled at it in a tentative way, at which the
other two glared at her. She turned her head away and tried to let go,
but the handle was caught in her glove. She looked up and I saw it was
Molly. My nurse-wife.
  
 
  "Oh, Alec!" she said, and managed to detach herself. "Are you all
right?" Was
   
   I
   
  all right!
  
 
  "Molly! What are you doing here?"
  
 
  "I was so worried, and when I saw all this, I didn't know what to
think." She pointed to the stalled cars. "Are you really all right?"
  
 
  "Of course I'm all right. But why...."
  
 
  "The Oyster Bay operator said someone kept dialing and dialing Mother's
number and there wasn't anyone on the line, so then she had it traced
and it came from our phone here. I kept calling up, but I only got a
busy signal. Oh, dear, are you
   
   sure
   
  you're all right?"
  
 
  I put my arm around her and glanced at McGill. He had an inward look.
Then I caught Danny's eye. It had a thoughtful, almost suspicious cast
to it.
  
 
  "Trouble does seem to follow you, Mr. Graham," was all he said.
  
 
  When we got upstairs, I turned to McGill. "Explain to Molly," I said.
"And incidentally to me. I'm not properly briefed yet."
  
 
  He did so, and when he got to the summing up, I had the feeling she was
a jump ahead of him.
  
 
  "In other words, you think it's something organic?"
  
 
  "Well," McGill said, "I'm trying to think of anything else it might be.
I'm not doing so well," he confessed.
  
 
  "But so far as I can see," Molly answered, "it's mere probability, and
without any over-all pattern."
  
 
  "Not quite. It has a center. Alec is the center."
  
