The waiter was concerned and apologetic, and took the drinks back to
the bar across the room. The bartender looked over at us and tasted
one of the drinks. Then he dumped them in his sink with a puzzled
expression and made a new batch. After shaking this up, he set out a
row of glasses, put ice in them and began to pour.
  
 
  That is to say he tilted the shaker over the first one, but nothing
came out. He bumped it against the side of the bar and tried again.
Still nothing. Then he took off the top and pried into it with his
pick, his face pink with exasperation.
  
 
  I had the impression that the shaker had frozen solid. Well, ice
   
   is
   
  a
crystal, I thought to myself.
  
 
  The other bartender gave him a fresh shaker, but the same thing
happened, and I saw no more because the customers sitting at the bar
crowded around in front of him, offering advice. Our waiter came back,
baffled, saying he'd have the drinks in a moment, and went to the
kitchen. When he returned, he had madame's vichyssoise and some rolls,
which he put down, and then went to the bar, where the audience had
grown larger.
  
 
  Molly lit a cigarette and said, "I suppose this is all part of it,
Alec. Incidentally, it seems to be getting warmer in here."
  
 
  It was, and I had the feeling the place was quieter—a background noise
had stopped. It dawned on me that I no longer heard the faint hum of
the air-conditioner over the door, and as I started to say so, I made
a gesture toward it. My hand collided with Molly's when she tapped her
cigarette over the ashtray, and the cigarette landed in the neighboring
vichyssoise.
  
 
  "Hey! What's the idea?" snarled the sour-looking man.
  
 
  "I'm terribly sorry," I said. "It was an accident. I—"
  
 
  "Throwing cigarettes at people!" the fat lady said.
  
 
  "I really didn't mean to," I began again, getting up. There must have
been a hole in the edge of their tablecloth which one of my cuff
buttons caught in, because as I stepped out from between the closely
set tables, I pulled everything—tablecloth, silver, water glasses,
ashtrays and the vichyssoise-à-la-nicotine—onto the floor.
  
 
  The fat lady surged from the banquette and slapped me meatily. The man
licked his thumb and danced as boxers are popularly supposed to do. The
owner of the place, a man with thick black eyebrows, hustled toward us
with a determined manner. I tried to explain what had happened, but I
was outshouted, and the owner frowned darkly.
  
