Molly looked at me with a curious expression for a moment. "Do you
   
   feel
   
  all right, darling?" she asked me. I nodded brightly. "You'll
think this silly of me," she went on to McGill, "but why isn't it
something like an overactive poltergeist?"
  
 
  "Pure concept," he said. "No genuine evidence."
  
 
  "Magnetism?"
  
 
  "Absolutely not. For one thing, most of the objects affected weren't
magnetic—and don't forget magnetism is a force, not a form of energy,
and a great deal of energy has been involved. I admit the energy has
mainly been supplied by the things themselves, but in a magnetic field,
all you'd get would be stored kinetic energy, such as when a piece of
iron moves to a magnet or a line of force. Then it would just stay
there, like a rundown clock weight. These things do a lot more than
that—they go on moving."
  
 
  "Why did you mention a crystal before? Why not a life-form?"
  
 
  "Only an analogy," said McGill. "A crystal resembles life in that it
has a definite shape and exhibits growth, but that's all. I'll agree
this—thing—has no discernible shape and motion
   
   is
   
  involved, but
plants don't move and amebas have no shape. Then a crystal feeds, but
it does not convert what it feeds on; it merely rearranges it into a
non-random pattern. In this case, it's rearranging random motions and
it has a nucleus and it seems to be growing—at least in what you might
call improbability."
  
 
  Molly frowned. "Then what
   
   is
   
  it? What's it made of?"
  
 
  "I should say it was made of the motions. There's a similar idea about
the atom. Another thing that's like a crystal is that it appears to
be forming around a nucleus not of its own material—the way a speck
of sand thrown into a supersaturated solution becomes the nucleus of
crystallization."
  
 
  "Sounds like the pearl in an oyster," Molly said, and gave me an
impertinent look.
  
 
  "Why," I asked McGill, "did you say the coins couldn't have the same
date? I mean apart from the off chance I got them that way."
  
 
  "Because I don't think this thing got going before today and
everything that's happened can all be described as improbable motions
here and now. The dates were already there, and to change them would
require retroactive action, reversing time. That's out, in my book.
That telephone now—"
  
 
  The doorbell rang. We were not surprised to find it was the telephone
repairman. He took the set apart and clucked like a hen.
  
 
  "I guess you dropped it on the floor, mister," he said with strong
disapproval.
  
 
  "Certainly not," I said. "Is it broken?"
  
 
  "Not exactly
   
   broken
   
  , but—" He shook his head and took it apart some
more.
  
