Dimdooly—the mighty, the lordly, who had sneered at the sight of mere
Earthmen kowtowing to a mere woman—swelled up fit to blow his gaskets,
then all the gas went out of him. His ear beards, however, still had
enough zip left to flutter like butterflies. "Yes, Trillium dear. I
love only you. Please marry me at your earliest convenience."
  
 
  "Well, Grandmamma," Trillium said with a highly self-satisfied air, "it
works. And just like you said, Earthmen meant nothing once I knew we
Venus women had our own men in our power."
  
 
  "Those crewmen there," Grandmamma President said, "seem to be proof
enough that we Venus women no longer radiate any threat to Earth's
tranquility."
  
 
  Yes, ma'am, O'Rielly sure felt like proof of something all of a sudden.
Worse than the hangover from that crap game with Venus vino. He looked
away from Trillium and took a look at Callahan. Old guy looked away
from Grandmamma President like he was packing the second biggest
headache in history.
  
 
  "Hmmmm, yes," Madame President of Earth observed. "Reactions agree
perfectly with the psychoanalytical research project we have been
conducting on the subject of the Venus female influence. Madame
President of Venus, congratulations on your victory!
  
 
  "Long may the superior sex reign on Venus too! We shall be delighted to
receive an Ambassadoress to discuss a new trade treaty at your earliest
convenience."
  
 
  "Thank you for cancelling the old trade agreements at the psychological
moment," Grandmamma President said cordially. "What with the
communications mixup, we managed to have the scenes on these panels
broadcast throughout all Venus. When the rug went out from under the
top man, the tide really turned in our favor. Now, Trillium, you take
over Dimmy's credentials."
  
 
  "The Ambassadorial Suite, too," Madame President of Earth said
graciously. "Anything else now, Berta?"
  
 
  "I should like," Grandmamma President Berta said charmingly, "that
Mr. O'Rielly and Mr. Callahan be suitably rewarded for assisting our
revolution better than they knew."
  
 
  "Of course," Madame President of Earth was delighted to oblige. "No
doubt Captain Hatwoody knows what reward would satisfy their needs
best."
  
 
  The Madame Presidents switched to a private circuit, Trillium dragged
Dimdooly off somewhere and the Old Woman eyed O'Rielly and Callahan.
Especially she eyed Callahan, like running chilled drills through his
old conniving brain. "I award the pair of you five minutes leisure
before returning to your stations."
  
 
  "Oh, well," O'Rielly muttered, once he and Callahan were safely beyond
earshot, "could have been rewarded worse, I suppose."
  
 
  "What you expect for being flimflammed by a foreign dame, the rings of
Saturn? Lucky we ain't programmed to be hung, shot and thrown to the
crows for breakfast." Callahan's old pick-and-shovel face wore a little
grin like the cat that nobody could prove ate the canary.
  
 
  "You—I mean, that Earth guy a hundred twenty-five years ago," O'Rielly
said in sudden thought. "If Venus dames wanted to be loved so bad, why
did Trillium's Grandmamma let him go?"
  
 
  "Venus guys wasn't so busy playing war all the time," Callahan mumbled,
like to himself, "they'd of found out the answer centuries ago. Yep,
guess our boy was the only guy on Earth or Venus to find out and live.
Dames bossing both planets now, though, his old secret won't be one
much longer. Venus dames could of let it out centuries ago themselves
but didn't, just to spite Earth probably. Later, was part of organizing
to take over Venus, I guess."
  
 
  O'Rielly still had memories of the way he had felt about Trillium
before her revolution. "All right, Callahan, why did 'our boy' leave
Grandmamma?"
  
 
  "Yes, ma'am," Callahan sighed like he hadn't heard a word O'Rielly
said, "you could sweet-talk 'em, kiss 'em and hold 'em tighter'n
Billy-be-damned. And that's all."
  
 
  "I'm not sure," O'Rielly said, "what you mean by, 'that's all.'"
  
 
  "Anybody ever seen anybody but a Venus guy come built with ear beards?
Course not."
  
 
  "But I thought our boy was wearing the best fakes ever."
  
 
  "Ain't nothing can match the natural growed-on variety, no, ma'am.
Venus guy kisses a Venus dame, his beards grabs her roundst the ears."
  
 
  "So what?"
  
 
  "Tickles 'em, boy, tickles 'em!"
  
 
