"Venus boys rared up and served notice that if Earth ever got any funny
notions, right away there wouldn't be enough Earth left to hide in an
atom's eyebrow. Touchy as hornets on a hot griddle, them Venus guys.
Crazier than bed bugs about war. Could smell a loose dollar a million
light years away too. Finagled around until they finally cooked up a
deal.
  
 
  "No Venus dames allowed within fifty miles of their port. Earth guys
stay inside the high-voltage fence. Any dame caught trying to leave
Venus thrown to the tigers for supper. Same for any Earth guy caught
around a Venus dame. In return, Earth could buy practically everything
at bargain basement prices."
  
 
  "Oh, I was shown the history films in pre-flight," O'Rielly said, still
dreamily. "But not a peek of any Venus dame."
  
 
  "Pray heaven you'll never lay eyes on one nor have one get within ten
foot of you! Even though you'd know she'd be your damnation wouldn't
make a whit difference—you'd still act sappier than thirty-seven
angels flying on vino." Callahan suddenly stared at O'Rielly. "Holy
hollering saints!"
  
 
  "Now, now, Burner Chief Callahan, sir," O'Rielly responded with an airy
laugh. "No Earth guy for a hundred twenty-five years been near one and
lived to tell it, has he?"
  
 
  "So the whispers run," Callahan murmured with a queer flame dancing
into his eyes. "So the old whispers still run."
  
 
  "Never a name, though. Never how it was done." O'Rielly snorted.
"Probably just a goofy tale set loose by some old space bum."
  
 
  "Oh?" Callahan bristled up like a bad name had been bandied about.
"Seen them ditty bags Venus bigwigs have, ain't you? Some big enough to
stuff a cow in. Notice how nobody ever dares question a bigwig's bags,
even through customs? Just run 'em through the big Geiger that tells
whether there's any fusionable junk inside. Well, our boy got himself
one of them bags, stuffed himself inside and joined a bigwig's pile of
'em.
  
 
  "Didn't pull it whilst on the Venus port during a layover either, when
a crew check would of turned him up missing. Pulled it on vacation.
Started on the Earth end. Made himself a pair of beards to paste on his
ears of course. Wove Jupiter wiggle worms in to keep the beards moving.
Wasn't like the real thing, but good enough to flimflam Venus guys."
  
 
  With suddenly enlivened interest O'Rielly looked at Callahan. "Hey, how
come you know so much?"
  
 
  "Hah? What?" Callahan blinked like waking from a trance; even groaned
to himself, something that sounded like, "Blabbering like I'd had
a nip myself—or one of them dillies was radiating nearby." Then
Callahan glared fit to drill holes in O'Rielly's head. "Look! I was
a full Burnerman before you was born. Been flying the spaces hundred
twenty-five years now. Had more chances to hear more—just hear more,
you hear! Only tried to clear your mind about Venus dames so you could
put your brain on your control mess. So now put it! If you ain't high
on vino and ain't been made nuts by a Venus dame, what answer do we
feed the Old Woman?"
  
 
  "Search me," Apprentice Burnerman O'Rielly responded cheerfully.
  
 
  "Of all the loony apprentices I ever had to answer the Old Woman for!
Awp, lemme out where I can think of something to save me own neck at
least!"
  
 
  Was all O'Rielly could do to keep from rolling on the deck with glee.
Old Callahan had been flimflammed for fair! The dear little stowaway
was saved! And O'Rielly would now think of grand ways to save her
lovely neck and his own forever.
  
 
  O'Rielly's shower door, however, opened abruptly. O'Rielly had not
opened it. O'Rielly, however, suffered a cruel stab of dismay. Surely
his dear stowaway had been listening through the door. Why didn't she
have brains enough to stay hid until Callahan was gone!
  
 
  At sight of her, of course, Callahan's eyes near popped from his old
head. "Berta!"
  
 
  "Oh, I'm Trillium," she assured Callahan sweetly. "But Grandmamma's
name is Berta and people say I'm just like she was a hundred and
twenty-five years ago."
  
