"Obviously Trillium's poor little brain has been drugged," His
Excellency Dimdooly declared. "Grandmamma Berta wouldn't know the first
thing about such things!"
  
 
  "Impossible!" Grandpapa President agreed. "I've been married to her
for a hundred and twenty-four and a half years and she's the finest
rattle-brain I ever knew!"
  
 
  "She learned," Trillium stated emphatically, "a hundred and twenty-five
years ago."
  
 
  "Hundred twenty-five," Grandpapa president growled like a boiling
volcano. "The year some Earthman.... Never did catch the devil....
Berta? Impossible!"
  
 
  Madame President's shapely finger now rested full on the button that
could launch the fleets of war rockets that had been pre-aimed for a
thousand years. "I'm afraid your Ambassador is unwelcome now," Madame
President stated coolly. "Your granddaughter's actions have every mark
of an invasion tactic by your government."
  
 
  "What do you mean, her actions?" Grandpapa President's finger now lay
poised on the button that had been waiting a thousand years to blow
Earth out of the universe. "My grandchild was kidnapped by men under
your official command! Weren't you, Trillium dear?"
  
 
  "No. One of us stowing away was the only way we Venus women could bring
our cause to the attention of Earth's President. If Earth will only
stop buying from Venus, you won't have any money to squander on your
wars any longer no matter what happens to we revolutionaries!"
  
 
  "Revolutionaries? Such claptrap! And what's wrong with my wars? People
have to have something to keep their minds off their troubles! Nobody
around here gets hurt. Oh, maybe a few scratches here and there. But
nobody on Venus dies from the things any more."
  
 
  "But Venus men are so excited all the time about going to war they
haven't time for us women. That's why we always radiated such a fatal
attraction for Earthmen. We want to be loved! We want our own men home
doing useful work!"
  
 
  "Well, they do come home and do useful work! Couple weeks every ten
months. Proven to be a highly efficient arrangement."
  
 
  "More boys to run off to your old wars and more girls to stay home and
be lonely!"
  
 
  "Now you just listen to me, Trillium!" Grandpapa President was all
Venus manhood laying down the law. "That's the way things have been on
Venus for ten thousand years and all the women in the universe can't
change it!"
  
 
  "I have been in constant contact with my Cabinet during these
conversations," Madame President said crisply. "Earth is terminating
all trade agreements with Venus as of this instant."
  
 
  "What?" Grandpapa's beards near pulled his ears off. "It's not legal!
You can't get away with this!"
  
 
  "Take your finger off that trigger, boy!" a heavenly voice similar to
Trillium's advised from the Venus panel.
  
 
  Whereupon Grandpapa glared to one side. "Berta! What are you doing
here? I am deciding matters of the gravest interplanetary nature!"
  
 
  "Were." Features more beautifully mature than Trillium's crowded onto
the panel too. "From now on I'm doing the deciding."
  
 
  "Nonsense! You're only my wife!"
  
 
  "And new President of Venus, elected by unanimous vote of all women."
  
 
  "Impossible! The men run Venus! Nobody's turning this planet into
another Earth where a man can't even sneeze unless some woman says so!"
  
 
  "Take him away, girls," Berta ordered coolly, whereupon her spouse was
yanked from view.
  
 
  His bellows, however, could be heard yet. "Unhand me, you fool
creatures! Guards! Guards!"
  
 
  "Save your breath," Berta advised him. "And while you're in the cooler,
enjoy this latest batch of surrender communiques. We women are in
control everywhere now."
  
 
  "Dimmy," Trillium was saying firmly to His Excellency, "you have beat
around the bush with me long enough. Now say it!"
  
