O'Rielly suddenly felt like turning her over his knee and whaling her
until she couldn't sit for a year. This, mind you, he felt in an age
where no Earth guy for a thousand years had dared raise so much as a
breath against woman's supremacy in all matters. That male character
trait, however, did not seem to be the overpowering reason why
O'Rielly, instead of laying violent hands upon this one's person, heard
himself saying in sympathetic outrage, "A shame you had to go to all
that bother to get out here!"
  
 
  "You're so kind. But I'm afraid I became rather sticky and smelly in
there."
  
 
  "They ought to cool the air in there with perfume! I'll drop a
suggestion in the Old Woman's box first chance I get."
  
 
  "You're so thoughtful. And do you have bathing facilities?"
  
 
  "That door right there. Oh, let me open it for you!"
  
 
  "You're so sweet." Her big dark eyes glowed with such pure innocence
that O'Rielly could have torn down the universe and rebuilt it just for
her.
  
 
  Yes, ma'am, O'Rielly was floating on a pink cloud with heavenly music
in his head. Never felt so fine before. Except on the Venus layover
when he'd been roped into a dice game with a bunch of Venus lads who
had a jug to cheer one's parting with one's money.
  
 
  A bell suddenly clanged fit to wake the dead while the overhead lights
flashed wildly. Only the watch room door. Only Callahan here now. Old
buzzard had a drooped nose like a pick, chin like a shovel.
  
 
  When he talked he was like digging a hole in front of himself. "Well,
what about that control?"
  
 
  "What control?"
  
 
  "Your fusion control that got itself two points low!"
  
 
  "Oh, that little thing."
  
 
  Callahan said something through his teeth, then studied O'Rielly
sharply. "Hey, you been wetting your whistle on that Venus vino again?
Lemme smell your breath! Bah. Loaded yourself full of chlorophyll
again probably. All right, stand aside whilst I see your burner."
  
 
  "Charmed to, Burner Chief Callahan, sir," O'Rielly said while bowing
gracefully.
  
 
  "Higher than a swacked skunk's tail again," Callahan muttered, then
snapped back over his shoulder, "Use your shower!"
  
 
  O'Rielly stood considering his shower door. Somehow he doubted that
Burner Chief Terrence Callahan's mood, or Captain Millicent Hatwoody's,
would be improved by knowledge of she who was in O'Rielly's shower now.
Not that the dear stowaway was less than charming. Quite the contrary.
Oh, very quite!
  
 
  "You rockhead!" Only Callahan back from the burner. "Didn't I tell you
to shower the stink off yourself? Old Woman's taking a Venus bigwig
on tour the ship. Old Woman catches you like you been rassling skunks
she'll peel both our hides off. Not to mention what she'll do anyway
about your fusion control!"
  
 
  "Burner Chief Callahan, sir," O'Rielly responded courteously, "I have
been thinking."
  
 
  "With what? Never mind, just keep on trying whilst I have a shower for
myself here." Wherewith Callahan reached hand for O'Rielly's shower
door.
  
 
  "Venus dames," O'Rielly said dreamily, "don't boss anything, do they?"
  
 
  Callahan yelped like he'd been bit in the pants by a big Jupiter ant.
"O'Rielly! You trying to get both of us condemned to a Uranus moon?"
Callahan also shot a wild look to the intercom switch. It was in OFF
position; the flight room full of fancy gold-lace petticoats could not
have overheard from here. Nevertheless Callahan's eyes rolled like the
devil was behind him with the fork ready. "O'Rielly, open your big ears
whilst for your own good and mine I speak of certain matters.
  
 
  "Thousand years ago, it was, the first flight reached Venus. Guys
got one look at them dames. Had to bring some home or bust. So then
everybody on Earth got a look, mostly by TV only of course. That did
it. Every guy on Earth began blowing his fuse over them dames. Give up
the shirt off his back, last buck in the bank, his own Earth dame or
family—everything.
  
 
  "Well, that's when Earth dames took over like armies of wild cats
with knots in their tails. Before the guys who'd brought the Venus
dames to Earth could say anything they was taken apart too small to
pick up with a blotter. Earth dames wound up by flying the Venus ones
back where they come from and serving notice if one ever set foot on
Earth again there wouldn't be enough left of Venus to find with an
electron microscope.
  
