Seeming to grind her teeth, the Old O Woman turned abruptly to leave
O'Rielly's watch room. Was all O'Rielly could do to keep from busting
out laughing for joy.
  
 
  Old Woman had been flimflammed for fair! Dear Trillium was saved! And
betwixt O'Rielly's grand brain and Callahan's great experience she'd be
happy forever.
  
 
  A fine loud "thump," however, was now heard. Old Woman whirled back and
yanked open the doors under O'Rielly's bunk.
  
 
  "Of all the sappy hiding places!" Callahan yelped, in surprise of
course.
  
 
  "Trillium?" His Excellency bellowed as if stung by one of the
sabre-tailed hornets of his native planet. "Trillium!"
  
 
  "Trillium," O'Rielly pleaded in loving anguish, "why do you have to
keep coming out of hiding just when nobody's going to find you?"
  
 
  Her eyes merely became deep pools in which O'Rielly would have gladly
drowned himself if he could.
  
 
 
 
  "There are rewards," the Old Woman said with the deadly coldness of
outer space, "for Earthmen found in a Venus woman's company, and for
her leaving her planet."
  
 
  "Shut up!" His Excellency's ear beards were standing straight out
sideways. "I'll handle this!"
  
 
  "May I remind His Excellency," the Old Woman snapped, "that I represent
Earth and her dominion of space gained by right of original flight!"
  
 
  "May I remind the Captain," His Excellency declared fit to be heard
back to his planet, "that I am the Personal Ambassador of the President
of Venus and this thing can mean war!"
  
 
  "Yes! War in which people will actually die!" As His Excellency paled
at that grisly remark, the Old Woman spoke through her teeth at
O'Rielly, Callahan and Trillium. "All right, come along!"
  
 
  O'Rielly joined the death march gladly. He felt the way Callahan
looked: ready to wrap his arms around Trillium's brave loveliness and
protect it to his last breath of life.
  
 
  Old Woman led the way to her office. Jabbed some buttons on her desk.
Panels on opposite walls lit up.
  
 
  "Presidents of Earth and Venus, please," the Old Woman stated evenly.
"Interplanetary emergency."
  
 
  Highly groomed flunkies appeared on the panels and were impersonally
pleasant.
  
 
  "Madame President's office. She is in a Cabinet meeting."
  
 
  "Mr. President's office. He is in personal command of our glorious war
efforts."
  
 
  Old Woman sighed through her teeth. "Venus woman aboard this ship.
Stowaway. Rattle that around your belfries."
  
 
  The flunkies' faces went slack with shock, then were replaced by a
blizzard of scrambled faces and torrents of incoherent voices.
  
 
  Finally on the Earth panel appeared the famous classic features. "The
facts, if you please, Captain Hatwoody."
  
 
  The Venus panel finally held steady on universally notorious features,
that were as fierce as an eagle's, in a fancy war helmet. "Trillium! My
own granddaughter? Impossible! Dimdooly," Mr. President roared at his
Excellency, "what's this nonsense?"
  
 
  "Some loud creature is interfering," Madame President snapped with
annoyance.
  
 
  "Blasted fools still have the circuits crossed," Mr. President swore.
"Some silly female cackling now!"
  
 
  The parties in the panels saw each other now. Each one's left hand on a
desk moved toward a big red button marked, ROCKETS.
  
 
  "So," Mr. President said evenly. "Another violation by your Earthmen."
  
 
  "By your granddaughter, at least," Madame President replied coolly.
  
 
  "An innocent child," Mr. President snapped, "obviously kidnapped by
those two idiotic Earthmen there!"
  
 
  "Oh, no, Grandpapa," Trillium said swiftly; "I stole away all by
myself, and Mr. O'Rielly and Callahan have been very helpful."
  
 
  "Impossible!" Grandpapa President's ear beards stood near straight up
as he roared, "You couldn't have stolen away by yourself! Trillium,
tell the truth!"
  
 
  "Very well. Grandmamma told me how."
  
