"Hah? What?" Callahan blinked like his brain had been taken apart and
was being slapped together again. "O'Rielly! Awp, you angel-faced
pirate, couldn't you hide her somewheres better than that? Shut up,
you don't have to explain to me, but God help the whole universe if we
don't flimflam the Old Woman!" With which ominous remark, rendered in
a zesty devil-may-care manner, however, Callahan threw himself into
O'Rielly's shower.
  
 
  O'Rielly stood looking thoughtfully at lovely, womanly, exquisite
Trillium. Just like that, O'Rielly felt as sparkling of mind as a
spiral nebula. "My locker!" he crowed with inspiration and yanked open
the doors under his bunk. He glimpsed a black ditty bag, also the cap
and coverall uniform of a baggage boy.
  
 
  "I threw them in there before you came on duty before blast-off,"
Trillium explained. "I knew the burner room would be warm."
  
 
  Trillium—with her shape—passing as a boy hustling bags through this
ship. O'Rielly chortled as he tucked her under his bunk. "Now don't you
worry about another thing!"
  
 
  "Oh, I'm not," she assured him happily. "Everything is going just the
way Grandmamma knew it would!"
  
 
  O'Rielly's shower opened and Callahan, glowing like a young bucko,
bounced onto the bunk. "Well, did you hide her good this time? No,
don't tell me! I want to be surprised if the Old Woman ever finds her."
  
 
  "If what old woman finds whom?" a voice like thin ice crackling wanted
to know.
  
 
  The watch room's door had opened. Wouldn't think the Old Woman was a
day over seventy-five, let alone near two hundred. Cut of her uniform
probably lent a helping hand or three to the young snap of her figure.
Frosty blue of fancy hair-do, she was, though, and icy of eye as she
looked at O'Rielly and Callahan still lolling on the bunk.
  
 
  Her voice was an iceberg exploding. "At attention!"
  
 
  Never in his right mind would any crewman dare fail to come stiffly
erect the instant the Old Woman appeared. Behind her stood a colorfully
robed specimen of Venus man. Handsome as the devil himself. Fit to snap
lesser men in two with his highly bejeweled hands. Fuzzy beards trailed
from his ears and kept twitching lazily as he sneered at the spectacle
of two men meekly acknowledging the superiority of a woman.
  
 
  She was fit to put frost on a hydrogen burner. "Mr. Callahan, I asked
you a question, did I not?"
  
 
  "Believe you did, ma'am," Callahan responded cheerfully. "And the
answer is, ma'am, that Apprentice Burnerman O'Rielly and me was
discussing—ah—matrimony, ma'am. Mr. Apprentice Burnerman O'Rielly
here is considering it, ma'am."
  
 
  Wasn't too bad a fib. The more O'Rielly thought of Trillium, the more
ideas he got of doing things he'd never dreamt of before in his life.
Yes, ma'am!
  
 
  "Wasting your time talking nonsense!" Old Woman's look was fit to
freeze O'Rielly's brain, then she gave Callahan the look. "I sent you
down here to find the answer to that fusion control slippage!"
  
 
  "Oh, you'll have the best answer you ever heard of before long, ma'am!"
Callahan assured her heartily. "The subject of nonsense—I mean,
women—merely chanced to arise whilst we was scientifically analyzing
the control phenomenon, ma'am. Naturally I offered this innocent young
Burnerman the benefit of me long years of experience. Why," Callahan
said with a jaunty laugh, "dames mean nothing to me. Indeed 'twouldn't
bother me none if there wasn't one of the things left in the world!
Present company excepted, of course," Callahan hastened to say with a
courtly bow.
  
 
  "Stay at attention!" Old Woman sniffed the air near Callahan's face,
then in O'Rielly's vicinity. "Smothered it with chlorophyll probably,"
she muttered through her teeth, "if it is that vino." Something
horrible as a plague flickered in her eyes, then the old ice was there
again. "Apprentice Burnerman, don't you know what your shower is for?
Then use it! Mr. Callahan, remain at attention while I inspect this
burner!" She tendered a cool glance at the Venus bigwig. "Care to join
me, Your Excellency?"
  
 
  "May as well." His Excellency glanced at O'Rielly and Callahan much as
he might at a couple of worms. Could bet your last old sox no female
ever told any Venus man what to do.
  
 
  The shower units were equipped so no Burnerman need be more than two
steps from his responsibility. To keep the Old Woman from possibly
blowing her gaskets completely, O'Rielly simply stepped in, shut the
door, flipped a switch and tingled as he was electronically cleansed
of person and clothes. By time he finished, the Old Woman and His
Excellency were already coming out of the burner room, dripping with
sweat.
  
 
  Old Woman opened the shower with her customary commanding air. "You
first, Your Excellency."
  
 
  "My dear Captain," His Excellency replied like a smoothly drawn dagger,
"always the lesser gender enjoys precedence."
  
 
  No Earth dame ever admitted any guy was even equal to any female. Old
Woman, a prime symbol of her gender's superiority, whipped a razor edge
onto her own words. "Facilities of the Captain's quarters are more
satisfactory."
  
 
  "No more so than those of the Ambassadorial Suite."
  
