 
  IT WAS A DULL, ROUTINE LITTLE
   
  WORLD. IT DIDN'T EVEN HAVE A
   
  CITY. EVERYTHING IT HAD WAS
  
 
  IN THE GARDEN
  
 
  BY R. A. LAFFERTY
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Worlds of If Science Fiction, March 1961.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  The protozoic recorder chirped like a bird. Not only would there be
life traces on that little moon, but it would be a lively place. So
they skipped several steps in the procedure.
  
 
  The chordata discerner read
   
   Positive
   
  over most of the surface. There
was spinal fluid on that orb, rivers of it. So again they omitted
several tests and went to the cognition scanner. Would it show Thought
on the body?
  
 
  Naturally they did not get results at once, nor did they expect to; it
required a fine adjustment. But they were disappointed that they found
nothing for several hours as they hovered high over the rotation. Then
it came—clearly and definitely, but from quite a small location only.
  
 
  "Limited," said Steiner, "as though within a pale. As though there were
but one city, if that is its form. Shall we follow the rest of the
surface to find another, or concentrate on this? It'll be twelve hours
before it's back in our ken if we let it go now."
  
 
  "Let's lock on this one and finish the scan. Then we can do the rest of
the world to make sure we've missed nothing," said Stark.
  
 
  There was one more test to run, one very tricky and difficult of
analysis, that with the Extraordinary Perception Locator. This was
designed simply to locate a source of superior thought. But this might
be so varied or so unfamiliar that often both the machine and the
designer of it were puzzled as to how to read the results.
  
 
  The E. P. Locator had been designed by Glaser. But when the Locator
had refused to read
   
   Positive
   
  when turned on the inventor himself,
bad blood developed between machine and man. Glaser knew that he had
extraordinary perception. He was a much honored man in his field. He
told the machine so heatedly.
  
 
  The machine replied, with such warmth that its relays chattered, that
Glaser did
   
   not
   
  have extraordinary perception; he had only ordinary
perception to an extraordinary degree. There is a
   
   difference
   
  , the
machine insisted.
  
 
  It was for this reason that Glaser used that model no more, but built
others more amenable. And it was for this reason also that the owners
of Little Probe had acquired the original machine so cheaply.
  
 
  And there was no denying that the Extraordinary Perception Locator (or
Eppel) was a contrary machine. On Earth it had read
   
   Positive
   
  on a
number of crack-pots, including Waxey Sax, a jazz tootler who could not
even read music. But it had also read
   
   Positive
   
  on ninety per cent of
the acknowledged superior minds of the Earth. In space it had been a
sound guide to the unusual intelligences encountered. Yet on Suzuki-Mi
it had read
   
   Positive
   
  on a two-inch-long worm, only one of them out of
billions. For the countless identical worms no trace of anything at all
was shown by the test.
  
 
  So it was with mixed expectations that Steiner locked onto the area
and got a flick. He then narrowed to a smaller area (apparently one
individual, though this could not be certain) and got very definite
action. Eppel was busy. The machine had a touch of the ham in it, and
assumed an air of importance when it ran these tests.
  
 
  Finally it signaled the result, the most exasperating result it ever
produces: the single orange light. It was the equivalent of the shrug
of the shoulders in a man. They called it the "You tell
   
   me
   
  light."
  
 
  So among the intelligences there was at least one that might be
extraordinary, though possibly in a crackpot way. It is good to be
forewarned.
  
