Matheny's finger stabbed in the general direction of Doran's pajama
top. "Exactly. And who set it up that way? Earthmen. We Martians are
babes in the desert. What chance do we have to earn dollars on the
scale we need them, in competition with corporations which could buy
and sell our whole planet before breakfast? Why, we couldn't afford
three seconds of commercial time on a Lullaby Pillow 'cast. What we
need, what we have to hire, is an executive who knows Earth, who's an
Earthman himself. Let him tell us what will appeal to your people, and
how to dodge the tax bite and—and—well, you see how it goes, that
sort of, uh, thing."
  
 
  Matheny felt his eloquence running down and grabbed for the second
bottle of beer.
  
 
  "But where do I start?" he asked plaintively, for his loneliness smote
him anew. "I'm just a college professor at home. How would I even get
to see—"
  
 
  "It might be arranged," said Doran in a thoughtful tone. "It just
might. How much could you pay this fellow?"
  
 
  "A hundred megabucks a year, if he'll sign a five-year contract. That's
Earth years, mind you."
  
 
  "I'm sorry to tell you this, Pete," said Doran, "but while that is not
bad money, it is not what a high-powered sales scientist gets in Newer
York. Plus his retirement benefits, which he would lose if he quit
where he is now at. And I am sure he would not want to settle on Mars
permanently."
  
 
  "I could offer a certain amount of, uh, lagniappe," said Matheny. "That
is, well, I can draw up to a hundred megabucks myself for, uh, expenses
and, well ... let me buy you a drink!"
  
 
  Doran's black eyes frogged at him. "You might at that," said the
Earthman very softly. "Yes, you might at that."
  
 
  Matheny found himself warming. Gus Doran was an authentic bobber. A
hell of a swell chap. He explained modestly that he was a free-lance
business consultant and it was barely possible that he could arrange
some contacts....
  
 
  "No, no, no commission, all done in the interest of interplanetary
friendship ... well, anyhow, let's not talk business now. If you have
got to stick to beer, Pete, make it a chaser to akvavit. What is
akvavit? Well, I will just take and show you."
  
 
  A hell of a good bloke. He knew some very funny stories, too, and
he laughed at Matheny's, though they were probably too rustic for a
big-city taste like his.
  
 
  "What I really want," said Matheny, "what I really want—I mean what
Mars really needs, get me?—is a confidence man."
  
 
  "A what?"
  
 
  "The best and slickest one on Earth, to operate a world-size con game
for us and make us some real money."
  
 
  "Con man? Oh. A slipstring."
  
 
  "A con by any other name," said Matheny, pouring down an akvavit.
  
