Doran blew up in laughter. "That is one thing I would never spill, even
without security. I told you about my girl friend, didn't I?"
  
 
  "Yes, and that calls to mind the Little Girl," said Matheny
apologetically. "She was another official project."
  
 
  "Who?"
  
 
  "Remember Junie O'Brien? The little golden-haired girl on Mars, a
mathematical prodigy, but dying of an incurable disease? She collected
Earth coins."
  
 
  "Oh, that. Sure, I remember—Hey! You didn't!"
  
 
  "Yes. We made about a billion dollars on that one."
  
 
  "I will be double damned. You know, Pete, I sent her a hundred-buck
piece myself. Say, how is Junie O'Brien?"
  
 
  "Oh, fine. Under a different name, she's now our finance minister."
Matheny stared out the wall, his hands twisting nervously behind his
back. "There were no lies involved. She really does have a fatal
disease. So do you and I. Every day we grow older."
  
 
  "Uh!" exclaimed Doran.
  
 
  "And then the Red Ankh Society. You must have seen or heard their ads.
'What mysterious knowledge did the Old Martians possess? What was
the secret wisdom of the Ancient Aliens? Now the incredibly powerful
semantics of the Red Ankh (not a religious organization) is available
to a select few—' That's our largest dollar-earning enterprise."
  
 
  He would have liked to say it was his suggestion originally, but it
would have been too presumptuous. He was talking to an Earthman, who
had heard everything already.
  
 
  Doran whistled.
  
 
  "That's about all, so far," confessed Matheny. "Perhaps a con is our
only hope. I've been wondering, maybe we could organize a Martian
bucket shop, handling Martian securities, but—well, I don't know."
  
 
  "I think—" Doran removed the helmet and stood up.
  
 
  "Yes?" Matheny faced around, shivering with his own tension.
  
 
  "I may be able to find the man you want," said Doran. "I just may. It
will take a few days and might get a little expensive."
  
 
  "You mean.... Mr. Doran—Gus—you could actually—"
  
 
  "I cannot promise anything yet except that I will try. Now you finish
dressing. I will be down in the bar. And I will call up this girl I
know. We deserve a celebration!"
  
