The lady drew herself up and jutted an indignant brow at him. "Sir!
This is a church!"
  
 
  "Oh—I see—excuse me, I, I, I—" Matheny backed out of the crowd,
shuddering. He looked around for some place to hide his burning ears.
  
 
  "You forgot your chips, pal," said a voice.
  
 
  "Oh. Thanks. Thanks ever so much. I, I, that is—" Matheny cursed
his knotting tongue.
   
   Damn it, just because they're so much more
sophisticated than I, do I have to talk like a leaky boiler?
   
 
 
  The helpful Earthman was not tall. He was dark and chisel-faced and
sleekly pomaded, dapper in blue pajamas with a red zigzag, a sleighbell
cloak and curly-toed slippers.
  
 
  "You're from Mars, aren't you?" he asked in the friendliest tone
Matheny had yet heard.
  
 
  "Yes. Yes, I am. M-my name's Peter Matheny. I, I—" He stuck out his
hand to shake and chips rolled over the floor. "Damn! Oh, excuse me, I
forgot this was a church. Never mind the chips. No, please. I just want
to g-g-get the hell out of here."
  
 
  "Good idea. How about a drink? I know a bar downshaft."
  
 
  Matheny sighed. "A drink is what I need the very most."
  
 
  "My name's Doran. Gus Doran. Call me Gus."
  
 
  They walked back to the deaconette's booth and Matheny cashed what
remained of his winnings.
  
 
  "I don't want to—I mean if you're busy tonight, Mr. Doran—"
  
 
  "Nah. I am not doing one thing in particular. Besides, I have never met
a Martian. I am very interested."
  
 
  "There aren't many of us on Earth," agreed Matheny. "Just a small
embassy staff and an occasional like me."
  
 
  "I should think you would do a lot of traveling here. The old mother
planet and so on."
  
 
  "We can't afford it," said Matheny. "What with gravitation and
distance, such voyages are much too expensive for us to make them for
pleasure. Not to mention our dollar shortage." As they entered the
shaft, he added wistfully: "You Earth people have that kind of money,
at least in your more prosperous brackets. Why don't you send a few
tourists to us?"
  
 
  "I always wanted to," said Doran. "I would like to see the what they
call City of Time, and so on. As a matter of fact, I have given my
girl one of those Old Martian rings last Ike's Birthday and she was
just gazoo about it. A jewel dug out of the City of Time, like,
made a million years ago by a, uh, extinct race ... I tell you, she
   
   appreciated
   
  me for it!" He winked and nudged.
  
 
  "Oh," said Matheny.
  
