Doran squinted through cigarette smoke. "You are interesting me
strangely, my friend. Say on."
  
 
  "No." Matheny realized his head was a bit smoky. The walls of the booth
seemed odd, somehow. They were just leatheroid walls, but they had an
odd quality.
  
 
  "No, sorry, Gus," he said. "I spoke too much."
  
 
  "Okay. Forget it. I do not like a man that pries. But look, let's bomb
out of here, how about it? Go have a little fun."
  
 
  "By all means." Matheny disposed of his last beer. "I could use some
gaiety."
  
 
  "You have come to the right town then. But let us get you a hotel room
first and some more up-to-date clothes."
  
 
  "
   
   Allez
   
  ," said Matheny. "If I don't mean
   
   allons
   
  , or maybe
   
   alors
   
  ."
  
 
  The drop down to cab-ramp level and the short ride afterward sobered
him; the room rate at the Jupiter-Astoria sobered him still more.
  
 
 
   Oh, well
   
  , he thought,
   
   if I succeed in this job, no one at home will
quibble.
   
 
 
  And the chamber to which he and Doran were shown was spectacular
enough, with a pneumo direct to the bar and a full-wall transparency to
show the vertical incandescence of the towers.
  
 
  "Whoof!" Matheny sat down. The chair slithered sensuously about his
contours. He jumped. "What the dusty hell—Oh." He tried to grin, but
his face burned. "I see."
  
 
  "That is a sexy type of furniture, all right," agreed Doran. He lowered
himself into another chair, cocked his feet on the 3-D and waved a
cigarette. "Which speaking of, what say we get some girls? It is not
too late to catch them at home. A date here will usually start around
2100 hours earliest."
  
 
  "What?"
  
 
  "You know. Dames. Like a certain blonde warhead with twin radar and
swivel mounting, and she just loves exotics. Such as you."
  
 
  "Me?" Matheny heard his voice climb to a schoolboy squeak. "Me?
Exotic? Why, I'm just a little college professor. I g-g-g, that is—"
His tongue got stuck on his palate. He pulled it loose and moistened
uncertain lips.
  
 
  "You are from Mars. Okay? So you fought bushcats barehanded in an
abandoned canal."
  
 
  "What's a bushcat? And we don't have canals. The evaporation rate—"
  
 
  "Look, Pete," said Doran patiently. "She don't have to know that, does
she?"
  
 
  "Well—well, no. I guess not No."
  
 
  "Let's order you some clothes on the pneumo," said Doran. "I recommend
you buy from Schwartzherz. Everybody knows he is expensive."
  
