He felt a certain guilt. Doran was too pleasant a little man to
deserve—
  
 
  "Of course," Matheny said ritually, "I agree with all the archeologists
it's a crime to sell such scientifically priceless artifacts, but what
can we do? We must live, and the tourist trade is almost nonexistent."
  
 
  "Trouble with it is, I hear Mars is not so comfortable," said Doran. "I
mean, do not get me wrong, I don't want to insult you or anything, but
people come back saying you have given the planet just barely enough
air to keep a man alive. And there are no cities, just little towns and
villages and ranches out in the bush. I mean you are being pioneers and
making a new nation and all that, but people paying half a megabuck for
their ticket expect some comfort and, uh, you know."
  
 
  "I do know," said Matheny. "But we're poor—a handful of people trying
to make a world of dust and sand and scrub thorn into fields and woods
and seas. We can't do it without substantial help from Earth, equipment
and supplies—which can only be paid for in Earth dollars—and we can't
export enough to Earth to earn those dollars."
  
 
  By that time, they were entering the Paul Bunyan Knotty Pine Bar &
Grill, on the 73rd Level. Matheny's jaw clanked down.
  
 
  "Whassa matter?" asked Doran. "Ain't you ever seen a ecdysiastic
technician before?"
  
 
  "Uh, yes, but—well, not in a 3-D image under ten magnifications."
  
 
  Matheny followed Doran past a sign announcing that this show was for
purely artistic purposes, into a booth. There a soundproof curtain
reduced the noise level enough so they could talk in normal voices.
  
 
  "What'll you have?" asked Doran. "It's on me."
  
 
  "Oh, I couldn't let you. I mean—"
  
 
  "Nonsense. Welcome to Earth! Care for a thyle and vermouth?"
  
 
  Matheny shuddered. "Good Lord, no!"
  
 
  "Huh? But they make thyle right on Mars, don't they?"
  
 
  "Yes. And it all goes to Earth and sells at 2000 dollars a fifth. But
you don't think we'd
   
   drink
   
  it, do you? I mean—well, I imagine it
doesn't absolutely
   
   ruin
   
  vermouth. But we don't see those Earthside
commercials about how sophisticated people like it so much."
  
