"Well, I'll be a socialist creeper!" Doran's face split in a grin. "You
know, all my life I've hated the stuff and never dared admit it!" He
raised a hand. "Don't worry, I won't blabbo. But I am wondering, if you
control the thyle industry and sell all those relics at fancy prices,
why do you call yourselves poor?"
  
 
  "Because we are," said Matheny. "By the time the shipping costs have
been paid on a bottle, and the Earth wholesaler and jobber and sales
engineer and so on, down to the retailer, have taken their percentage,
and the advertising agency has been paid, and about fifty separate
Earth taxes—there's very little profit going back to the distillery
on Mars. The same principle is what's strangling us on everything. Old
Martian artifacts aren't really rare, for instance, but freight charges
and the middlemen here put them out of the mass market."
  
 
  "Have you not got some other business?"
  
 
  "Well, we do sell a lot of color slides, postcards, baggage labels and
so on to people who like to act cosmopolitan, and I understand our
travel posters are quite popular as wall decoration. But all that has
to be printed on Earth, and the printer and distributor keep most of
the money. We've sold some books and show tapes, of course, but only
one has been really successful—
   
   I Was a Slave Girl on Mars
   
  .
  
 
  "Our most prominent novelist was co-opted to ghostwrite that one.
Again, though, local income taxes took most of the money; authors
never have been protected the way a businessman is. We do make a high
percentage of profit on those little certificates you see around—you
know, the title deeds to one square inch of Mars—but expressed
absolutely, in dollars, it doesn't amount to much when we start
shopping for bulldozers and thermonuclear power plants."
  
 
  "How about postage stamps?" inquired Doran. "Philately is a big
business, I have heard."
  
 
  "It was our mainstay," admitted Matheny, "but it's been overworked.
Martian stamps are a drug on the market. What we'd like to operate is a
sweepstakes, but the anti-gambling laws on Earth forbid that."
  
