A dropshaft deposited him on a walkway. The crowd, a rainbow of men in
pajamas and robes, women in Neo-Sino dresses and goldleaf hats, swept
him against the rail. For a moment, squashed to the wire, he stared a
hundred feet down at the river of automobiles.
   
   Phobos!
   
  he thought
wildly.
   
   If the barrier gives, I'll be sliced in two by a dorsal fin
before I hit the pavement!
   
 
 
  The August twilight wrapped him in heat and stickiness. He could see
neither stars nor even moon through the city's blaze. The forest of
multi-colored towers, cataracting half a mile skyward across more
acreage than his eyes reached, was impressive and all that, but—he
used to stroll out in the rock garden behind his cottage and smoke a
pipe in company with Orion. On summer evenings, that is, when the
temperature wasn't too far below zero.
  
 
 
   Why did they tap me for this job?
   
  he asked himself in a surge of
homesickness.
   
   What the hell is the Martian Embassy here for?
   
 
 
  He, Peter Matheny, was no more than a peaceful professor of
sociodynamics at Devil's Kettle University. Of course, he had advised
his government before now—in fact, the Red Ankh Society had been his
idea—but still he was at ease only with his books and his chess and
his mineral collection, a faculty poker party on Tenthday night and an
occasional trip to Swindletown—
  
 
 
   My God
   
  , thought Matheny,
   
   here I am, one solitary outlander in the
greatest commercial empire the human race has ever seen, and I'm
supposed to find my planet a con man!
   
 
 
  He began walking, disconsolately, at random. His lizardskin shirt and
black culottes drew glances, but derisive ones: their cut was forty
years out of date. He should find himself a hotel, he thought drearily,
but he wasn't tired; the spaceport would pneumo his baggage to him
whenever he did check in. The few Martians who had been to Earth had
gone into ecstasies over the automation which put any service you could
name on a twenty-four-hour basis. But it would be a long time before
Mars had such machines. If ever.
  
 
  The city roared at him.
  
 
  He fumbled after his pipe.
   
   Of course
   
  , he told himself,
   
   that's why
the Embassy can't act. I may find it advisable to go outside the law.
Please, sir, where can I contact the underworld?
   
 
 
  He wished gambling were legal on Earth. The Constitution of the Martian
Republic forbade sumptuary and moral legislation; quite apart from the
rambunctious individualism which that document formulated, the article
was a practical necessity. Life was bleak enough on the deserts,
without being denied the pleasure of trying to bottom-deal some friend
who was happily trying to mark the cards. Matheny would have found a
few spins of roulette soothing: it was always an intellectual challenge
to work out the system by which the management operated a wheel. But
more, he would have been among people he understood.
  
 
  The frightful thing about the Earthman was the way he seemed to
exist only in organized masses. A gypsy snake oil peddler, plodding
his syrtosaur wagon across Martian sands, just didn't have a prayer
against, say, the Grant, Harding & Adams Public Relations Agency.
  
