Matheny puffed smoke and looked around. His feet ached from the weight
on them. Where could a man sit down? It was hard to make out any
individual sign through all that flimmering neon. His eye fell on one
that was distinguished by relative austerity.
  
 
  THE CHURCH OF CHOICE
   
 
   Enter, Play, Pray
   
 
 
  That would do. He took an upward slideramp through several hundred feet
of altitude, stepped past an aurora curtain, and found himself in a
marble lobby next to an inspirational newsstand.
  
 
  "Ah, brother, welcome," said a red-haired usherette in demure black
leotards. "The peace that passeth all understanding be with you. The
restaurant is right up those stairs."
  
 
  "I—I'm not hungry," stammered Matheny. "I just wanted to sit in—"
  
 
  "To your left, sir."
  
 
  The Martian crossed the lobby. His pipe went out in the breeze from an
animated angel. Organ music sighed through an open doorway. The series
of rooms beyond was dim, Gothic, interminable.
  
 
  "Get your chips right here, sir," said the girl in the booth.
  
 
  "Hm?" said Matheny.
  
 
  She explained. He bought a few hundred-dollar tokens, dropped a
fifty-buck coin down a slot marked CONTRIBUTIONS, and sipped the
martini he got back while he strolled around studying the games.
He stopped, frowned. Bingo? No, he didn't want to bother learning
something new. He decided that the roulette wheels were either honest
or too deep for him. He'd have to relax with a crap game instead.
  
 
  He had been standing at the table for some time before the rest of the
congregation really noticed him. Then it was with awe. The first few
passes he had made were unsuccessful. Earth gravity threw him off.
But when he got the rhythm of it, he tossed a row of sevens. It was a
customary form of challenge on Mars. Here, though, they simply pushed
chips toward him. He missed a throw, as anyone would at home: simple
courtesy. The next time around, he threw for a seven just to get the
feel. He got a seven. The dice had not been substituted on him.
  
 
  "I say!" he exclaimed. He looked up into eyes and eyes, all around the
green table. "I'm sorry. I guess I don't know your rules."
  
 
  "You did all right, brother," said a middle-aged lady with an obviously
surgical bodice.
  
 
  "But—I mean—when do we start actually
   
   playing
   
  ? What happened to the
cocked dice?"
  
