Doran whistled. "I got to give your people credit for enterprise,
anyway!" He fingered his mustache. "Uh, pardon me, but have you tried
to, well, attract capital from Earth?"
  
 
  "Of course," said Matheny bitterly. "We offer the most liberal
concessions in the Solar System. Any little mining company or transport
firm or—or anybody—who wanted to come and actually invest a few
dollars in Mars—why, we'd probably give him the President's daughter
as security. No, the Minister of Ecology has a better-looking one.
But who's interested? We haven't a thing that Earth hasn't got more
of. We're only the descendants of a few scientists, a few political
malcontents, oddballs who happen to prefer elbow room and a bill of
liberties to the incorporated state—what could General Nucleonics
hope to get from Mars?"
  
 
  "I see. Well, what are you having to drink?"
  
 
  "Beer," said Matheny without hesitation.
  
 
  "Huh? Look, pal, this is on me."
  
 
  "The only beer on Mars comes forty million miles, with interplanetary
freight charges tacked on," said Matheny. "Heineken's!"
  
 
  Doran shrugged, dialed the dispenser and fed it coins.
  
 
  "This is a real interesting talk, Pete," he said. "You are being very
frank with me. I like a man that is frank."
  
 
  Matheny shrugged. "I haven't told you anything that isn't known to
every economist."
  
 
 
   Of course I haven't. I've not so much as mentioned the Red Ankh, for
instance. But, in principle, I have told him the truth, told him of our
need; for even the secret operations do not yield us enough.
   
 
 
  The beer arrived. Matheny engulfed himself in it. Doran sipped at a
whiskey sour and unobtrusively set another full bottle in front of the
Martian.
  
 
  "Ahhh!" said Matheny. "Bless you, my friend."
  
 
  "A pleasure."
  
 
  "But now you must let me buy you one."
  
 
  "That is not necessary. After all," said Doran with great tact, "with
the situation as you have been describing—"
  
 
  "Oh, we're not
   
   that
   
  poor! My expense allowance assumes I will
entertain quite a bit."
  
 
  Doran's brows lifted a few minutes of arc. "You're here on business,
then?"
  
 
  "Yes. I told you we haven't any tourists. I was sent to hire a business
manager for the Martian export trade."
  
 
  "What's wrong with your own people? I mean, Pete, it is not your fault
there are so many rackets—uh, taxes—and middlemen and agencies and et
cetera. That is just the way Earth is set up these days."
  
