The gravity was not as hard to take as Peter Matheny had expected.
Three generations on Mars might lengthen the legs and expand the chest
a trifle, but the genes had come from Earth and the organism readjusts.
What set him gasping was the air. It weighed like a ton of wool and had
apparently sopped up half the Atlantic Ocean. Ears trained to listen
through the Martian atmosphere shuddered from the racket conducted by
Earth's. The passport official seemed to bellow at him.
  
 
  "Pardon me for asking this. The United Protectorates welcome all
visitors to Earth and I assure you, sir, an ordinary five-year visa
provokes no questions. But since you came on an official courier boat
of your planet, Mr. Matheny, regulations force me to ask your business."
  
 
  "Well—recruiting."
  
 
  The official patted his comfortable stomach, iridescent in neolon, and
chuckled patronizingly. "I am afraid, sir, you won't find many people
who wish to leave. They wouldn't be able to see the Teamsters Hour on
Mars, would they?"
  
 
  "Oh, we don't expect immigration," said Matheny shyly. He was a fairly
young man, but small, with a dark-thatched, snub-nosed, gray-eyed
head that seemed too large for his slender body. "We learned long ago
that no one is interested any more in giving up even second-class
citizenship on Earth to live in the Republic. But we only wanted to
hire——uh, I mean engage—an, an advisor. We're not businessmen. We
know our export trade hasn't a chance among all your corporations
unless we get some—a five-year contract...?"
  
 
  He heard his words trailing off idiotically, and swore at himself.
  
 
  "Well, good luck." The official's tone was skeptical. He stamped the
passport and handed it back. "There, now, you are free to travel
anywhere in the Protectorates. But I would advise you to leave the
capital and get into the sticks—um, I mean the provinces. I am sure
there must be tolerably competent sales executives in Russia or
Congolese Belgium or such regions. Frankly, sir, I do not believe you
can attract anyone out of Newer York."
  
 
  "Thanks," said Matheny, "but, you see, I—we need—that is.... Oh,
well. Thanks. Good-by."
  
 
  He backed out of the office.
  
