"There are tensions in this room," my sister announced as she slouched
in, not quite awake yet, "and hatred. I could feel them all the way
upstairs. And today I'm working on the Sleepsweet Mattress copy, so I
must feel absolutely tranquil. Everyone will think beautiful thoughts,
please."
  
 
  She sat down just as a glass of orange juice was arriving at her
place; Danny apparently didn't know she'd come in already. The glass
bumped into the back of her neck, tilted and poured its contents over
her shoulder and down her very considerable decolletage. Being a mere
primitive, I couldn't help laughing.
  
 
  "Danny, you fumbler!" she screamed.
  
 
  Danny erupted from the kitchen. "How many times have I asked all of you
not to sit down until I've got everything on the table? Always a lot of
interfering busybodies getting in the way."
  
 
  "I don't see why you have to set the table at all," she retorted. "A
robot could do it better and faster than you. Even Kev could." She
turned quickly toward me. "Oh, I am sorry, Kevin."
  
 
  I didn't say anything; I was too busy pressing my hands down on the
back of the chair to make my knuckles turn white.
  
 
  Sylvia's face turned even whiter. "Father, stop him—
   
   stop
   
  him! He's
hating again! I can't stand it!"
  
 
  Father looked at me, then at her. "I don't think he can help it,
Sylvia."
  
 
  I grinned. "That's right—I'm just a poor atavism with no control over
myself a-tall."
  
 
  Finally my mother came in from the kitchen; she was an old-fashioned
woman and didn't hold with robocooks. One quick glance at me gave her
the complete details, even though I quickly protested, "It's illegal to
probe anyone without permission."
  
 
  "I used to probe you to find out when you needed your diapers changed,"
she said tartly, "and I'll probe you now. You should watch yourself,
Sylvia—poor Kevin isn't responsible."
  
 
  She didn't need to probe to get the blast of naked emotion that spurted
out from me. My sister screamed and even Father looked uncomfortable.
Danny stomped back into the kitchen, muttering to himself.
  
 
  Mother's lips tightened. "Sylvia, go upstairs and change your dress.
Kevin, do I have to make an appointment for you at the clinic again?"
A psychiatrist never diagnosed members of his own family—that is, not
officially; they couldn't help offering thumbnail diagnoses any more
than they could help having thumbnails.
  
 
  "No use," I said, deciding it was safe to drop into my chair. "Who can
adjust me to an environment to which I'm fundamentally unsuited?"
  
 
  "Maybe there is something physically wrong with him, Amy," my father
suggested hopefully. "Maybe you should make an appointment for him at
the cure-all?"
  
 
  Mother shook her neatly coiffed head. "He's been to it dozens of times
and he always checks out in splendid shape. None of us can spare the
time to go with him again, just on an off-chance, and he could hardly
be allowed to make such a long trip all by himself. Pity there isn't a
machine in every community, but, then, we don't really need them."
  
