On that day, I walked farther than I had intended and, by the time I
got back home, I found the rest of my family had returned before me.
They seemed to be excited about something and were surprised to see me
so calm.
  
 
  "Aren't you even interested in anything outside your own immediate
concerns, Kev?" Sylvia demanded, despite Father's efforts to shush her.
  
 
  "Can't you remember that Kev isn't able to receive the tellies?" Tim
shot back at her. "He probably doesn't even know what's happened."
  
 
  "Well, what did happen?" I asked, trying not to snap.
  
 
  "One starship got back from Alpha Centauri," Danny said excitedly.
"There are two inhabited Earth-type planets there!"
  
 
  This was for me; this was it at last! I tried not to show my
enthusiasm, though I knew that was futile. My relatives could keep
their thoughts and emotions from me; I couldn't keep mine from them.
"What kind of life inhabits them? Humanoid?"
  
 
  "Uh-uh." Danny shook his head. "And hostile. The crew of the starship
says they were attacked immediately on landing. When they turned and
left, they were followed here by one of the alien ships. Must be a
pretty advanced race to have spaceships. Anyhow, the extraterrestrial
ship headed back as soon as it got a fix on where ours was going."
  
 
  "But if they're hostile," I said thoughtfully, "it might mean war."
  
 
  "Of course. That's why everybody's so wrought up. We hope it's peace,
but we'll have to prepare for war just in case."
  
 
  There hadn't been a war on Earth for well over a hundred years, but
we hadn't been so foolish as to obliterate all knowledge of military
techniques and weapons. The alien ship wouldn't be able to come back
with reinforcements—if such were its intention—in less than six
months. This meant time to get together a stockpile of weapons, though
we had no idea of how effective our defenses would be against the
aliens' armament.
  
 
  They might have strange and terrible weapons against which we would
be powerless. On the other hand, our side would have the benefits
of telekinetically guided missiles, teleported saboteurs, telepaths
to pick up the alien strategy, and prognosticators to determine the
outcome of each battle and see whether it was worth fighting in the
first place.
  
 
  Everybody on Earth hoped for peace. Everybody, that is, except me. I
had been unable to achieve any sense of identity with the world in
which I lived, and it was almost worth the loss of personal survival
to know that my own smug species could look silly against a still more
talented race.
  
