"It isn't so much our defense that worries me," my mother muttered, "as
lack of adequate medical machinery. War is bound to mean casualties
and there aren't enough cure-alls on the planet to take care of them.
It's useless to expect the government to build more right now; they'll
be too busy producing weapons. Sylvia, you'd better take a leave of
absence from your job and come down to Psycho Center to learn first-aid
techniques. And you too, Kevin," she added, obviously a little
surprised herself at what she was saying. "Probably you'd be even
better at it than Sylvia since you aren't sensitive to other people's
pain."
  
 
  I looked at her.
  
 
  "It
   
   is
   
  an ill wind," she agreed, smiling wryly, "but don't let me
catch you thinking that way, Kevin. Can't you see it would be better
that there should be no war and you should remain useless?"
  
 
  I couldn't see it, of course, and she knew that, with her wretched
talent for stripping away my feeble attempts at privacy. Psi-powers
usually included some ability to form a mental shield; being without
one, I was necessarily devoid of the other.
  
 
  My attitude didn't matter, though, because it was definitely war. The
aliens came back with a fleet clearly bent on our annihilation—even
the 'paths couldn't figure out their motives, for the thought pattern
was entirely different from ours—and the war was on.
  
 
  I had enjoyed learning first-aid; it was the first time I had ever
worked with people as an equal. And I was good at it because psi-powers
aren't much of an advantage there. Telekinesis maybe a little, but
I was big enough to lift anybody without needing any superhuman
abilities—normal human abilities, rather.
  
 
  "Gee, Mr. Faraday," one of the other students breathed, "you're so
strong. And without 'kinesis or anything."
  
 
  I looked at her and liked what I saw. She was blonde and pretty. "My
name's not Mr. Faraday," I said. "It's Kevin."
  
 
  "My name's Lucy," she giggled.
  
 
  No girl had ever giggled at me in that way before. Immediately I
started to envision a beautiful future for the two of us, then flushed
when I realized that she might be a telepath. But she was winding a
tourniquet around the arm of another member of the class with apparent
unconcern.
  
 
  "Hey, quit that!" the windee yelled. "You're making it too tight! I'll
be mortified!"
  
 
  So Lucy was obviously not a telepath. Later I found out she was only
a low-grade telesensitive—just a poetess—so I had nothing to worry
about as far as having my thoughts read went. I was a little afraid of
Sylvia's kidding me about my first romance, but, as it happened, she
got interested in one of the guys who was taking the class with us, and
she was not only too busy to be bothered with me, but in too vulnerable
a position herself.
  
 
  However, when the actual bombs—or their alien equivalent—struck near
our town, I wasn't nearly so happy, especially after they started
carrying the wounded into the Psycho Center, which had been turned into
a hospital for the duration. I took one look at the gory scene—I had
never seen anybody really injured before; few people had, as a matter
of fact—and started for the door. But Mother was already blocking the
way. It was easy to see from which side of the family Tim had got his
talent for prognostication.
  
 
  "If the telepaths who can pick up all the pain can stand this, Kevin,"
she said, "
   
   you
   
  certainly can." And there was no kindness at all in
the
   
   you
   
  .
  
 
  She gave me a shove toward the nearest stretcher. "Go on—now's your
chance to show you're of some use in this world."
  
