The government pointed out that such crowds outside the building might
attract the enemy's attention. I was the most important individual on
Earth, they told my followers, and my safety couldn't be risked. The
human race at this stage was pretty docile. The crowds went away. And
it was right that they should; I didn't want to be risked any more than
they wanted to risk me.
  
 
  Plenty of people did come to see me officially—the President,
generals, all kinds of big wheels, bringing citations, medals and other
obsolete honors they'd revived primarily for me. It was wonderful. I
began to love everybody.
  
 
  "Don't you think you're putting too much of yourself into this, Kev?"
Lucy asked me one day.
  
 
  I gave her an incredulous glance. "You mean I shouldn't help people?"
  
 
  "Of course you should help them. I didn't mean anything like that.
Just ... well, you're getting too bound up in your work."
  
 
  "Why shouldn't I be?" Then the truth, as I thought, dawned on me. "Are
you jealous, Lucy?"
  
 
  She lowered her eyes. "Not only that, but the war's bound to come to
an end, you know, and—"
  
 
  It was the first part of her sentence that interested me. "Why, do you
mean—"
  
 
  And just then a fresh batch of casualties arrived and I had to tend to
them. For the next few days, I was so busy, I didn't get the chance to
have the long talk with Lucy I'd wanted....
  
 
  Then, after only four months, the war suddenly stopped. It seemed
that the aliens' weapons, despite their undeniable mysteriousness,
were not equal to ours. And they had the added disadvantage of being
light-years away from home base. So the remnant of their fleet took off
and blew itself up just outside of Mars, which we understood to be the
equivalent of unconditional surrender. And it was; we never heard from
the Centaurians again.
  
 
  Peace once more. I had a little mopping up to do at the hospital; then
I collected my possessions and went back home after a dignitary—only
the Vice President this time—had thanked me on behalf of a grateful
country. I wasn't needed any more.
  
