Now that the virus diseases had been licked, people hardly ever
got sick any more and, when they did, it was mostly psychosomatic.
Life was so well organized that there weren't even many accidents
these days. It was a safe, orderly existence for those who fitted
into it—which accounted for more than ninety-five per cent of the
population. The only ones who didn't adjust were those who couldn't,
like me—psi-deficients, throwbacks to an earlier era. There were no
physical cripples, because anybody could have a new arm or a new leg
grafted on, but you couldn't graft psi powers onto an atavism or, if
you could, the technique hadn't been developed yet.
  
 
  "I feel a sense of impending doom brooding over this household," my
youngest brother remarked cheerfully as he vaulted into his chair.
  
 
  "You always do, Timothy," my mother said, unfolding her napkin. "And I
must say it's not in good taste, especially at breakfast."
  
 
  He reached for his juice. "Guess this is a doomed household. And what
was all that emotional uproar about?"
  
 
  "The usual," Sylvia said from the doorway before anyone else could
answer. She slid warily into her chair. "Hey, Dan, I'm here!" she
called. "If anything else comes in, it comes in manually, understand?"
  
 
  "Oh, all right." Dan emerged from the kitchen with a tray of food
floating ahead of him.
  
 
  "The usual? Trouble with Kev?" Tim looked at me narrowly. "Somehow my
sense of ominousness is connected with him."
  
 
  "Well, that's perfectly natural—" Sylvia began, then stopped as Mother
caught her eye.
  
 
  "I didn't mean that," Tim said. "I still say Kev's got something we
can't figure out."
  
 
  "You've been saying that for years," Danny protested, "and he's been
tested for every faculty under the Sun. He can't telepath or teleport
or telekinesthesize or even teletype. He can't precognize or prefix or
prepossess. He can't—"
  
 
  "Strictly a bundle of no-talent, that's me," I interrupted, trying to
keep my animal feelings from getting the better of me. That was how my
family thought of me, I knew—as an animal, and not a very lovable one,
either.
  
 
  "No," Tim said, "he's just got something we haven't developed a test
for. It'll come out some day, you'll see." He smiled at me.
  
