 
  Jack of No Trades
  
 
  By EVELYN E. SMITH
  
 
  Illustrated by CAVAT
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from Galaxy October 1955.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright
   
  on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
 
   I was psick of Psi powers, not having any. Or didn't I? Maybe they'd
psee otherwise psomeday!
   
 
 
 
  I walked into the dining room and collided with a floating mass of
fabric, which promptly draped itself over me like a sentient shroud.
  
 
  "Oh, for God's sake, Kevin!" my middle brother's voice came muffled
through the folds. "If you can't help, at least don't hinder!"
  
 
  I managed to struggle out of the tablecloth, even though it seemed to
be trying to wrap itself around me. When Danny got excited, he lost his
mental grip.
  
 
  "I could help," I yelled as soon as I got my head free, "if anybody
would let me and, what's more, I could set the table a damn sight
faster by hand than you do with 'kinesis."
  
 
  Just then Father appeared at the head of the table. He could as easily
have walked downstairs as teleported, but I belonged to a family of
exhibitionists. And Father tended to show off as if he were still a
kid. Not that he looked his age—he was big and blond, like Danny and
Tim and me, and could have passed for our older brother.
  
 
  "Boys, boys!" he reproved us. "Danny, you ought to be ashamed of
yourself—picking on poor Kev."
  
 
  Even if it hadn't been Danny's fault, he would still have been blamed.
  
 
  Nobody was ever supposed to raise a voice or a hand or a thought to
poor afflicted Kev, because nature had picked on me enough. And the
nicer everybody was to me, the nastier I became, since only when they
lost their tempers could I get—or so I believed—their true attitude
toward me.
  
 
  How else could I tell?
  
 
  "Sorry, fella," Dan apologized to me. The tablecloth spread itself out
on the table. "Wrinkles," he grumbled to himself. "Wrinkles. And I had
it so nice and smooth before. Mother will be furious."
  
 
  "If she were going to be furious, she'd be furious already," Father
reminded him sadly. It must be tough to be married to a deep-probe
telepath, I thought, and I felt a sudden wave of sympathy for him. It
was so seldom I got the chance to feel sorry for anyone except myself.
"But I think you'll find she understands."
  
 
  "She knows, all right," Danny remarked as he went on into the kitchen,
"but I'm not sure she always understands."
  
 
  I was surprised to find him so perceptive on the abstract level,
because he wasn't what you might call an understanding person, either.
  
