"I wonder why we never thought of healing as a potential psi-power," my
mother said to me later, when I was catching a snatch of rest and she
was lighting cigarettes and offering me cups of coffee in an attempt to
make up twenty-six years of indifference, perhaps dislike, all at once.
"The ability to heal
   
   is
   
  recorded in history, only we never paid much
attention to it."
  
 
  "Recorded?" I asked, a little jealously.
  
 
  "Of course," she smiled. "Remember the King's Evil?"
  
 
  I should have known without her reminding me, after all the old books I
had read. "Scrofula, wasn't it? They called it that because the touch
of certain kings was supposed to cure it ... and other diseases, too, I
guess."
  
 
  She nodded. "Certain people must have had the healing power and that's
probably why they originally got to be the rulers."
  
 
  In a very short time, I became a pretty important person. All the other
deficients in the world were tested for the healing power and all of
them turned out negative. I proved to be the only human healer alive,
and not only that, I could work a thousand times more efficiently and
effectively than any of the machines. The government built a hospital
just for my work! Wounded people were ferried there from all over the
world and I cured them. I could do practically everything except raise
the dead and sometimes I wondered whether, with a little practice, I
wouldn't be able to do even that.
  
 
  When I came to my new office, whom did I find waiting there for me but
Lucy, her trim figure enhanced by a snug blue and white uniform. "I'm
your assistant, Kev," she said shyly.
  
 
  I looked at her. "You are?"
  
 
  "I—I hope you want me," she went on, coyness now mixing with
apprehension.
  
 
  I gave her shoulder a squeeze. "I do want you, Lucy. More than I can
tell you now. After all this is over, there's something more I want to
say. But right now—" I clapped her arm—"there's a job to be done."
  
 
  "Yes, Kevin," she said, glaring at me for some reason I didn't have
time to investigate or interpret at the moment. My patients were
waiting for me.
  
 
  They gave me everything else I could possibly need, except enough
sleep, and I myself didn't want that. I wanted to heal. I wanted to
show my fellow human beings that, though I couldn't receive or transmit
thoughts or foretell the future or move things with my mind, all those
powers were useless without life, and that was what I could give.
  
 
  I took pride in my work. It was good to stop pain and ugliness, to know
that, if it weren't for me, these people would be dead or permanently
disfigured. In a sense, they were—well, my children; I felt a warm
glow of affection toward them.
  
 
  They felt the same way toward me. I knew because the secret of the
hospital soon leaked out—during all those years of peace, the
government had lost whatever facility it had for keeping secrets—and
people used to come in droves, hoping for a glimpse of me.
  
