Lashed together with a length of unbreakable beryllium steel cable,
the
   
   Lachesis
   
  and the
   
   Atropos
   
  fell helplessly toward the sun. The
frantic flame that lashed out from the
   
   Lachesis'
   
  tube was fading, her
fission chambers fusing under the terrific heat of splitting atoms.
Still she tried. She could not desert her sister ship, nor could she
save her. Already the two ships had fallen to within 18,000,000 miles
of the sun's terrifying atmosphere of glowing gases. The prominences
that spouted spaceward seemed like great fiery tentacles reaching for
the trapped men on board the warships. The atmospheric guiding fins,
the gun-turrets and other protuberances on both ships were beginning
to melt under the fierce radiance. Only the huge refrigeration plants
on the vessels made life within them possible. And, even so, men were
dying.
  
 
  Swiftly, the fat, ungainly shape of old Aphrodisiac drew near. In her
flying-bridge, Strike and Ivy Hendricks watched the stricken ships in
the darkened viewport.
  
 
  The temperature stood at 140° and the air was bitter with the smell
of hot metal. Ivy's blouse clung to her body, soaked through with
perspiration. Sweat ran from her hair into her eyes and she gasped
for breath in the oven hot compartment. Strike watched her with
apprehension.
  
 
  Carefully, Ivy circled the two warships. From the starboard tube on
the gun-deck, a homing rocket leapt toward the
   
   Atropos
   
  . It plunged
straight and true, spilling cable as it flew. It slammed up against
the hull, and stuck there, fast to the battleship's flank. Quickly,
a robocrane drew it within the ship and the cable was made secure.
Like cosmic replicas of the ancient South American "bolas," the three
spacecraft whirled in space ... and all three began that sunward plunge
together.
  
 
 
 
   They were diving into the sun.
   
 
 
 
  The heat in the
   
   Aphrodite's
   
  bridge was unbearable. The thermometer
showed 145° and it seemed to Strike that Hell must be cool by
comparison.
  
 
  Ivy fought her reeling senses and the bucking ship as the slack came
out of the cable. Blackness was flickering at the edges of her field
of vision. She could scarcely lift her hand to the red-sealed circuit
rheostat. Shudderingly, she made the effort ... and failed. Conscious,
but too spent to move, she collapsed over the blistering hot instrument
panel.
  
 
  "
   
   Ivy!
   
  " Strike was beside her, cradling her head in his arm.
  
 
  "I ... I ... can't make it ... Strike. You'll ... have to run ... the
show ... after ... all."
  
 
  Strike laid her gently in an acceleration chair and turned toward the
control panel. His head was throbbing painfully as he broke the seal on
the surge-circuit.
  
 
  Slowly he turned the rheostat. Relays chattered. From deep within
old Lover-Girl's vitals came a low whine. He fed more power into the
circuit. Cadmium rods slipped into lead sheaths decks below in the
tube-rooms. The whining rose in pitch. The spinning of the ships in
space slowed. Stopped. With painful deliberation, they swung into line.
  
 
  More power. The whine changed to a shriek. A banshee wail.
  
 
  Cob's voice came through the squawk-box, soberly. "Strike, Celia's
fainted down here. We can't take much more of this heat."
  
 
  "We're trying, Cob!" shouted Strike over the whine of the circuit. The
gauges showed the accumulators full. "
   
   Now!
   
  " He spun the rheostat to
the stops, and black space burst over his brain....
  
 
  The last thing he remembered was a voice. It sounded like Bayne's. And
it was shouting. "We're moving 'em! We're pulling away! We're...." And
that was all.
  
 
  The space-tug
   
   Scylla
   
  found them.
  
 
  The three ships ...
   
   Atropos
   
  ,
   
   Lachesis
   
  , and old Aphrodisiac ...
lashed together and drifting in space. Every man and woman aboard out
cold from the acceleration, and
   
   Aphrodite's
   
  tanks bone dry. But they
were a safe 80,000,000 miles from Sol....
  
