And she was not an inspiring sight. The fantastically misnamed
   
   Aphrodite
   
  was a surge-circuit monitor of twenty guns built some ten
years back in the period immediately preceding the Ionian Subjugation
Incident. She had been designed primarily for atomics, with a
surge-circuit set-up for interstellar flight. At least that was the
planner's view. In those days, interstellar astrogation was in its
formative stage, and at the time of the
   
   Aphrodite's
   
  launching the
surge-circuit was hailed as the very latest in space drives.
  
 
  Her designer, Harlan Hendricks, had been awarded a Legion of Merit
for her, and every silver-braided admiral in the Fleet had dreamed
of hoisting his flag on one of her class. There had been three. The
   
   Artemis
   
  , the
   
   Andromeda
   
  , and the prototype ... old Aphrodisiac. The
three vessels had gone into action off Callisto after the Phobos Raid
had set off hostilities between the Ionians and the Solarian Combine.
  
 
  All three were miserable failures.
  
 
  The eager officers commanding the three monitors had found the circuit
too appealing to their hot little hands. They used it ... in some way,
wrongly.
  
 
  The
   
   Artemis
   
  exploded. The
   
   Andromeda
   
  vanished in the general
direction of Coma Berenices glowing white hot from the heat of a
ruptured fission chamber and spewing gamma rays in all directions.
And the
   
   Aphrodite's
   
  starboard tubes blew, causing her to spend her
store of vicious energy spinning like a Fourth of July pinwheel under
20 gravities until all her interior fittings ... including crew were a
tangled, pulpy mess within her pressure hull.
  
 
  The
   
   Aphrodite
   
  was refitted for space. And because it was an integral
part of her design, the circuit was rebuilt ... and sealed. She became
a workhorse, growing more cantankerous with each passing year. She
carried personnel.... She trucked ores. She ferried skeeterboats and
tanked rocket fuel. Now, she would carry the mail. She would lift from
Venusport and jet to Canalopolis, Mars, without delay or variation.
Regulations, tradition and Admiral Gorman of the Inner Planet Fleet
required it. And it was now up to David Farragut Strykalski III to see
to it that she did....
  
 
  The Officer of the Deck, a trim blonde girl in spotless greys saluted
smartly as Strike and Cob stepped through the valve.
  
 
  Strike felt vaguely uncomfortable. He knew, of course, that at least a
third of the personnel on board non-combat vessels of the Inner Planet
Fleet was female, but he had never actually had women on board a ship
of his own, and he felt quite certain that he preferred them elsewhere.
  
 
  Cob sensed his discomfort. "That was Celia Graham, Strike. Ensign.
Radar Officer. She's good, too."
  
 
  Strike shook his head. "Don't like women in space. They make me
uncomfortable."
  
 
  Cob shrugged. "Celia's the only officer. But about a quarter of our
ratings are women." He grinned maliciously. "Equal rights, you know."
  
 
  "No doubt," commented the other sourly. "Is that why they named
this ... ship 'Aphrodite'?"
  
 
  Whitley saw fit to consider the question rhetorical and remained silent.
  
 
  Strike lowered his head to clear the arch of the flying-bridge
bulkhead. Cob followed. He trailed his Captain through a jungle
of chrome piping to the main control panels. Strike sank into an
acceleration chair in front of the red DANGER seal on the surge-circuit
rheostat.
  
 
  "Looks like a drug-store fountain, doesn't it?" commented Cob.
  
 
  Strykalski nodded sadly, thinking of the padded smoothness of the
   
   Ganymede's
   
  flying-bridge. "But she's home to us, anyway."
  
 
  The thick Venusian fog had closed in around the top levels of the ship,
hugging the ports and cutting off all view of the field outside. Strike
reached for the squawk-box control.
  
 
  "Now hear this. All officer personnel will assemble in the flying
bridge at 600 hours for Captain's briefing. Officer of the Deck will
recall any enlisted personnel now on liberty...."
  
 
  Whitley was on his feet, all the slackness gone from his manner.
"Orders, Captain?"
  
 
  "We can't do anything until the new Engineering Officer gets here.
They're sending someone down from the
   
   Antigone
   
  , and I expect him by
600 hours. In the meantime you'll take over his part of the work. See
to it that we are fueled and ready to lift ship by 602. Base will start
loading the mail at 599:30. That's about all."
  
 
  "Yes, sir." Whitley saluted and turned to go. At the bulkhead, he
paused. "Captain," he asked, "Who is the new E/O to be?"
  
 
  Strike stretched his long legs out on the steel deck. "A Lieutenant
Hendricks, I. V. Hendricks, is what the orders say."
  
 
  Cob thought hard for a moment and then shrugged his shoulders. "I. V.
Hendricks." He shook his head. "Don't know him."
  
