The other officers of the
   
   T.R.S. Aphrodite
   
  were in conference with
the Captain when Cob and the girl at his side reached the flying
bridge. She was tall and dark-haired with regular features and pale
blue eyes. She wore a service jumper with two silver stripes on the
shoulder-straps, and even the shapeless garment could not hide the
obvious trimness of her figure.
  
 
  Strike's back was toward the bulkhead, and he was addressing the others.
  
 
  "... and that's about the story. We are to jet within 28,000,000 miles
of Sol. Orbit is trans-Mercurian hyperbolic. With Mars in opposition,
we have to make a perihelion run and it won't be pleasant. But I'm
certain this old boiler can take it. I understand the old boy who
designed her wasn't as incompetent as they say. But Space Regs are
specific about mail runs. This is important to you, Evans. Your
astrogation has to be accurate to within twenty-five miles plus or
minus the shortest route. And there'll be no breaking orbit. Now be
certain that the refrigeration units are checked, Mister Wilkins,
especially in the hydroponic cells. Pure air is going to be important."
  
 
  "That's about all there is to tell you. As soon as our rather
leisurely E/O gets here, we can jet with Aunt Nelly's postcard." He
nodded. "That's the story. Lift ship in...." He glanced at his wrist
chronograph, "... in an hour and five."
  
 
  The officers filed out and Cob Whitley stuck his head into the room.
"Captain?"
  
 
  "Come in, Cob." Strike's dark brows knit at the sight of the uniformed
girl in the doorway.
  
 
  Cob's face was sober, but hidden amusement was kindling behind his
eyes. "Captain, may I present Lieutenant Hendricks? Lieutenant
   
   I-vy
   
  Hendricks?"
  
 
  Strike looked blankly at the girl.
  
 
  "Our new E/O, Captain," prompted Whitley.
  
 
  "Uh ... welcome aboard, Miss Hendricks," was all the Captain could find
to say.
  
 
  The girl's eyes were cold and unfriendly. "Thank you, Captain." Her
voice was like cracked ice tinkling in a glass. "If I may have your
permission to inspect the drives, Captain, I
   
   may
   
  be able to
convince you that the designer of this vessel was not ... as you seem
to think ... a senile incompetent."
  
 
  Strike was perplexed, and he showed it. "Why, certainly ... uh ...
Miss ... but why should you be so...."
  
 
  The girl's voice was even colder than before as she said, "Harlan
Hendricks, Captain, is my father."
  
