  Jinx Ship To The Rescue
  
 
  By ALFRED COPPEL, JR.
  
 
  Stand by for
   
   T.R.S. Aphrodite
   
  , butt of the Space
   
  Navy. She's got something terrific in her guts and only
   
  her ice-cold lady engineer can coax it out of her!
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Planet Stories Winter 1948.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  Brevet Lieutenant Commander David Farragut Strykalski III of the
Tellurian Wing, Combined Solarian Navies, stood ankle deep in the
viscous mud of Venusport Base and surveyed his new command with a
jaundiced eye. The hot, slimy, greenish rain that drenched Venusport
for two-thirds of the 720-hour day had stopped at last, but now a
miasmic fog was rising from the surrounding swampland, rolling across
the mushy landing ramp toward the grounded spaceship. Visibility was
dropping fast, and soon porto-sonar sets would have to be used to find
the way about the surface Base. It was an ordinary day on Venus.
  
 
  Strike cursed Space Admiral Gorman and all his ancestors with a wealth
of feeling. Then he motioned wearily to his companion, and together
they sloshed through the mud toward the ancient monitor.
  
 
  The scaly bulk of the Tellurian Rocket Ship
   
   Aphrodite
   
  loomed
unhappily into the thick air above the two men as they reached the
ventral valve. Strike raised reluctant eyes to the sloping flank of the
fat spaceship.
  
 
  "It looks," he commented bitterly, "like a pregnant carp."
  
 
  Senior Lieutenant Coburn Whitley—"Cob" to his friends—nodded in
agreement. "That's our Lover-Girl ... old Aphrodisiac herself. The ship
with the poison personality." Cob was the
   
   Aphrodite's
   
  Executive,
and he had been with her a full year ... which was a record for Execs
on the
   
   Aphrodite
   
  . She generally sent them Earthside with nervous
breakdowns in half that time.
  
 
  "Tell me, Captain," continued Cob curiously, "how does it happen
that you of all people happened to draw this tub for a command? I
thought...."
  
 
  "You know Gorman?" queried Strykalski.
  
 
  Cob nodded. "Oh, yes. Yes, indeed. Old Brass-bottom Gorman?"
  
 
  "The same."
  
 
  "Well," Cob ran a hand over his chin speculatively, "I know Gorman's
a prize stinker ... but you were in command of the
   
   Ganymede
   
  . And,
after all, you come from an old service family and all that. How come
this?" He indicated the monitor expressively.
  
 
  Strike sighed. "Well, now, Cob, I'll tell you. You'll be spacing with
me and I guess you've a right to know the worst ... not that you
wouldn't find it out anyway. I come from a long line of very sharp
operators. Seven generations of officers and gentlemen. Lousy with
tradition.
  
 
  "The first David Farragut Strykalski, son of a sea-loving Polish
immigrant, emerged from World War II a four-striper and Congressional
Medal winner. Then came David Farragut Strykalski, Jr., and, in the
abortive Atomic War that terrified the world in 1961, he won a United
Nations Peace Citation. And then came David Farragut Strykalski III ...
me.
  
 
  "From such humble beginnings do great traditions grow. But something
happened when I came into the picture. I don't fit with the rest of
them. Call it luck or temperament or what have you.
  
 
  "In the first place I seem to have an uncanny talent for saying the
wrong thing to the wrong person. Gorman for example. And I take too
much on my own initiative. Gorman doesn't like that. I lost the
   
   Ganymede
   
  because I left my station where I was supposed to be running
section-lines to take on a bunch of colonists I thought were in
danger...."
  
 
  "The Procyon A people?" asked Cob.
  
 
  "So you've heard about it." Strike shook his head sadly. "My tactical
astrophysicist warned me that Procyon A might go nova. I left my
routine post and loaded up on colonists." He shrugged. "Wrong guess. No
nova. I made an ass of myself and lost the
   
   Ganymede
   
  . Gorman gave it
to his former aide. I got this."
  
 
  Cob coughed slightly. "I heard something about Ley City, too."
  
 
  "Me again. The
   
   Ganymede's
   
  whole crew ended up in the Luna Base brig.
We celebrated a bit too freely."
  
 
  Cob Whitley looked admiringly at his new Commander. "That was the night
after the
   
   Ganymede
   
  broke the record for the Centaurus B-Earth run,
wasn't it? And then wasn't there something about...."
  
 
  "Canalopolis?"
  
 
  Whitley nodded.
  
 
  "That time I called the Martian Ambassador a spy. It was at a Tellurian
Embassy Ball."
  
 
  "I begin to see what you mean, Captain."
  
 
  "Strike's the name, Cob."
  
 
  Whitley's smile was expansive. "Strike, I think you're going to like
our old tin pot here." He patted the
   
   Aphrodite's
   
  nether belly
affectionately. "She's old ... but she's loose. And we're not likely to
meet any Ambassadors or Admirals with her, either."
  
 
  Strykalski sighed, still thinking of his sleek
   
   Ganymede
   
  . "She'll
carry the mail, I suppose. And that's about all that's expected of her."
  
 
  Cob shrugged philosophically. "Better than tanking that stinking rocket
fuel, anyway. Deep space?"
  
 
  Strike shook his head. "Venus-Mars."
  
 
  Cob scratched his chin speculatively. "Perihelion run. Hot work."
  
 
  Strike was again looking at the spaceship's unprepossessing exterior.
"A surge-circuit monitor, so help me."
  
 
  Cob nodded agreement. "The last of her class."
  
