Old Aphrodisiac had reached perihelion when it happened. The
thermometer stood at 135° and tempers were snapping. Cob and Celia
Graham had tangled about some minor point concerning Lover-Girl's
weight and balance. Ivy went about her work on the bridge without
speaking, and Strike made no attempt to brighten her sudden depression.
Lieutenant Evans had punched Bayne, the Tactical Astrophysicist,
in the eye for some disparaging remark about Southern California
womanhood. The ratings were grumbling about the food....
  
 
  And then it happened.
  
 
  Cob was in the radio room when Sparks pulled the flimsy from the
scrambler. It was a distress signal from the
   
   Lachesis
   
  . The
   
   Atropos
   
  had burst a fission chamber and was falling into the sun.
Radiation made a transfer of personnel impossible, and the
   
   Atropos
   
  skeeterboats didn't have the power to pull away from the looming star.
The
   
   Lachesis
   
  had a line on the sister dreadnaught and was valiantly
trying to pull the heavy vessel to safety, but even the thundering
power of the
   
   Lachesis'
   
  mighty drive wasn't enough to break Sol's
deathgrip on the battleship.
  
 
  A fleet of souped-up space-tugs was on its way from Luna and Venusport,
but they could not possibly arrive on time. And it was doubtful that
even the tugs had the necessary power to drag the crippled
   
   Atropos
   
  away from a fiery end.
  
 
  Cob snatched the flimsy from Sparks' hands and galloped for the
flying-bridge. He burst in and waved the message excitedly in front of
Strykalski's face.
  
 
  "Have a look at this! Ye gods and little catfish! Read it!"
  
 
  "Well, dammit, hold it still so I can!" snapped Strike. He read the
message and passed it to Ivy Hendricks with a shake of his head.
  
 
  She read it through and looked up exultantly. "This is
   
   it
   
  ! This is
the chance I've been praying for, Strike!"
  
 
  He returned her gaze sourly. "For Gorman to fall into the sun? I recall
I said something of the sort myself, but there are other men on those
ships. And, if I know Captain Varni on the
   
   Lachesis
   
  , he won't let go
that line even if he fries himself."
  
 
  Ivy's eyes snapped angrily. "That's not what I meant, and you know it!
I mean this!" She touched the red-sealed surge-circuit rheostat.
  
 
  "That's very nice, Lieutenant," commented Cob drily. "And I know that
you've been very busy adjusting that gismo. But I seem to recall that
the last time that circuit was uncorked everyone aboard became part of
the woodwork ... very messily, too."
  
 
  "Let me understand you, Ivy," said Strike in a flat voice. "What you
are suggesting is that I risk my ship and the lives of all of us trying
to pull old Gorman's fat out of the fire with a drive that's blown
skyhigh three times out of three. Very neat."
  
 
  There were tears bright in Ivy Hendricks' eyes and she sounded
desperate. "But we can save those ships! We can, I
   
   know
   
  we can! My
father designed this ship! I know every rivet of her! Those idiots off
Callisto didn't know what they were doing. These ships needed specially
trained men. Father told them that! And I'm trained! I can take her in
and save those ships!" Her expression turned to one of disgust. "Or are
you afraid?"
  
 
  "Frankly, Ivy, I haven't enough sense to be afraid. But are you so
certain that we can pull this off? If I make a mistake this time ...
it'll be the last. For all of us."
  
 
  "We can do it," said Ivy Hendricks simply.
  
 
  Strike turned to Cob. "What do you say, Cob? Shall we make it hotter in
here?"
  
 
  Whitley shrugged. "If you say so, Strike. It's good enough for me."
  
 
  Celia Graham left the bridge shaking her head. "We'll all be dead soon.
And me so young and pretty."
  
 
  Strike turned to the squawk-box. "Evans!"
  
 
  "Evans here," came the reply.
  
 
  "Have Sparks get a DF fix on the
   
   Atropos
   
  and hold it. We'll home on
their carrier wave. They're in trouble and we're going after them. Plot
the course."
  
 
  "Yes, Captain."
  
 
  Strike turned to Cob. "Have the gun-crews stand by to relieve the
black-gang in the tube rooms. It's going to get hotter than the hinges
of hell down there and we'll have to shorten shifts."
  
 
  "Yes, sir!" Cob saluted and was gone.
  
 
  Strike returned to the squawk-box. "Radar!"
  
 
  "Graham here," replied Celia from her station.
  
 
  "Get a radar fix on the
   
   Lachesis
   
  and hold it. Send your dope up to
Evans and tell him to send us a range estimate."
  
 
  "Yes, Captain," the girl replied crisply.
  
 
  "Gun deck!"
  
 
  "Gun deck here, sir," came a feminine voice.
  
 
  "Have number two starboard torpedo tube loaded with a fish and a spool
of cable. Be ready to let fly on short notice ... any range."
  
 
  "Yes, sir!" The girl switched off.
  
 
  "And now you, Miss Hendricks."
  
 
  "Yes, Captain?" Her voice was low.
  
 
  "Take over Control ... and Ivy...."
  
 
  "Yes?"
  
 
  "Don't kill us off." He smiled down at her.
  
 
  She nodded silently and took her place at the control panel. Smoothly
she turned old Aphrodisiac's nose sunward....
  
