A week in space had convinced Strike that he commanded a jinx ship.
Jetting sunward from Venus, the cantankerous
   
   Aphrodite
   
  had burned a
steering tube through, and it had been necessary to go into free-fall
while Jenkins, the Assistant E/O, and a damage control party effected
repairs. When the power was again applied, Old Aphrodisiac was running
ten hours behind schedule, and Strike and Evans, the Astrogation
Officer, were sweating out the unforeseen changes introduced into the
orbital calculations by the time spent in free-fall.
  
 
  The
   
   Aphrodite
   
  rumbled on toward the orbit of Mercury....
  
 
  For all the tension between the occupants of the flying-bridge, Strike
and Ivy Hendricks worked well together. And after a second week in
space, a reluctant admiration was replacing the resentment between
them. Ivy spent whatever time she could spare tinkering with her
father's pet surge-circuit and Strike began to realize that there was
little she did not know about spaceship engineering. Then, too, Ivy
spent a lot of time at the controls, and Strike was forced to admit
that he had never seen a finer job of piloting done by man or woman.
  
 
  And finally, Ivy hated old Brass-bottom Gorman even more than Strike
did. She felt that Gorman had ruined her father's career, and she was
dedicating her life to proving her father right and Brass-bottom wrong.
There's nothing in the cosmos to nurture friendship like a common enemy.
  
 
  At 30,000,000 miles from the sun, the
   
   Aphrodite's
   
  refrigeration
units could no longer keep the interior of the ship at a comfortable
temperature. The thermometer stood at 102°F, the very metal of
the ship's fittings hot to the touch. Uniforms were discarded,
insignia of rank vanished. The men dressed in fiberglass shorts and
spaceboots, sweat making their naked bodies gleam like copper under the
sodium-vapor lights. The women in the crew added only light blouses to
their shorts ... and suffered from extra clothing.
  
 
  Strike was in the observation blister forward, when Ensign Graham
called to say that she had picked up a radar contact sunward. The
IFF showed the pips to be the
   
   Lachesis
   
  and the
   
   Atropos
   
  . The two
dreadnaughts were engaged in coronary research patrol ... a purely
routine business. But the thing that made Strike curse under his breath
was Celia Graham's notation that the
   
   Atropos
   
  carried none other than
Space Admiral Horatio Gorman, Cominch Inplan.
  
 
  Strike thought it a pity that old Brass-bottom couldn't fall into
Hell's hottest pit ... and he told Ivy so.
  
 
  And she agreed.
  
