Peter started, opened his mouth to answer, closed it again. He'd been
jolted too often in too short a time to be stampeded into blurting a
reply that would cost him this job.
  
 
  "Good," said Lexington. "Only a fool would try to answer that. Do you
have any knowledge of medicine?"
  
 
  "Not enough to matter," Peter said, stung by the compliment.
  
 
  "I don't mean how to bandage a cut or splint a broken arm. I mean
things like cell structure, neural communication—the
   
   basics
   
  of how
we live."
  
 
  "I'm applying for a job as engineer."
  
 
  "I know. Are you interested in the basics of how we live?"
  
 
  Peter looked for a hidden trap, found none. "Of course. Isn't everyone?"
  
 
  "Less than you think," Lexington said. "It's the preconceived notions
they're interested in protecting. At least I won't have to beat them
out of you."
  
 
  "Thanks," said Peter, and waited for the next fast ball.
  
 
  "How long have you been out of school?"
  
 
  "Only two years. But you knew that from the Association—"
  
 
  "No practical experience to speak of?"
  
 
  "Some," said Peter, stung again, this time not by a compliment. "After
I got my degree, I went East for a post-graduate training program with
an electrical manufacturer. I got quite a bit of experience there. The
company—"
  
 
  "Stockpiled you," Lexington said.
  
 
  Peter blinked. "Sir?"
  
 
  "Stockpiled you! How much did they pay you?"
  
 
  "Not very much, but we were getting the training instead of wages."
  
 
  "Did that come out of the pamphlets they gave you?"
  
 
  "Did what come out—"
  
 
  "That guff about receiving training instead of wages!" said Lexington.
"Any company that really wants bright trainees will compete for them
with money—cold, hard cash, not platitudes. Maybe you saw a few of
their products being made, maybe you didn't. But you're a lot weaker in
calculus than when you left school, and in a dozen other subjects too,
aren't you?"
  
 
  "Well, nothing we did on the course involved higher mathematics," Peter
admitted cautiously, "and I suppose I could use a refresher course in
calculus."
  
 
  "Just as I said—they stockpiled you, instead of using you as an
engineer. They hired you at a cut wage and taught you things that would
be useful only in their own company, while in the meantime you were
getting weaker in the subjects you'd paid to learn. Or are you one of
these birds that had the shot paid for him?"
  
 
  "I worked my way through," said Peter stiffly.
  
 
  "If you'd stayed with them five years, do you think you'd be able to
get a job with someone else?"
  
 
  Peter considered his answer carefully. Every man the Association had
sent had been turned away. That meant bluffs didn't work. Neither, he'd
seen for himself, did allowing himself to be intimidated.
  
 
  "I hadn't thought about it," he said. "I suppose it wouldn't have been
easy."
  
 
  "Impossible, you mean. You wouldn't know a single thing except their
procedures, their catalogue numbers, their way of doing things. And
you'd have forgotten so much of your engineering training, you'd be
scared to take on an engineer's job, for fear you'd be asked to do
something you'd forgotten how to do. At that point, they could take you
out of the stockpile, put you in just about any job they wanted, at
any wage you'd stand for, and they'd have an indentured worker with a
degree—but not the price tag. You see that now?"
  
