Lexington smiled. "Well, automated as it was, it couldn't compete with
this plant. It gave me great pleasure, three years after this one
started working, to see my old company go belly up. This company bought
the old firm's equipment for next to nothing and I wound up with all my
assets, but only one employee—me.
  
 
  "I thought everything would be rosy from that point on, but it
wasn't. I found that I couldn't keep up with the mail unless I worked
impossible hours. I added a couple of new pieces of equipment to the
control section. One was simply a huge memory bank. The other was
a comparator circuit. A complicated one, but a comparator circuit
nevertheless. Here I was working on instinct more than anything. I
figured that if I interconnected these circuits in such a way that
they could sense everything that went on in the plant, and compare one
action with another, by and by the unit would be able to see patterns.
  
 
  "Then, through the existing command output, I figured these new units
would be able to control the plant, continuing the various patterns of
activity that I'd already established."
  
 
  Here Lexington frowned. "It didn't work worth a damn! It just sat there
and did nothing. I couldn't understand it for the longest time, and
then I realized what the trouble was. I put a kicker circuit into it, a
sort of voltage-bias network. I reset the equipment so that while it
was still under instructions to receive orders and produce goods, its
prime purpose was to activate the kicker. The kicker, however, could
only be activated by me, manually. Lastly, I set up one of the early
TV pickups over the mail slitter and allowed every letter I received,
every order, to be fed into the memory banks. That did it."
  
 
  "I—I don't understand," stammered Peter.
  
 
  "Simple! Whenever I was pleased that things were going smoothly, I
pressed the kicker button. The machine had one purpose, so far as its
logic circuits were concerned. Its object was to get me to press that
button. Every day I'd press it at the same time, unless things weren't
going well. If there had been trouble in the shop, I'd press it late,
or maybe not at all. If all the orders were out on schedule, or ahead
of time, I'd press it ahead of time, or maybe twice in the same day.
Pretty soon the machine got the idea.
  
 
  "I'll never forget the day I picked up an incoming order form from one
of the western jobbers, and found that the keyboard was locked when I
tried to punch it into the control console. It completely baffled me
at first. Then, while I was tracing out the circuits to see if I could
discover what was holding the keyboard lock in, I noticed that the
order was already entered on the in-progress list. I was a long time
convincing myself that it had really happened, but there was no other
explanation.
  
 
  "The machine had realized that whenever one of those forms came in, I
copied the list of goods from it onto the in-progress list through the
console keyboard, thus activating the producing mechanisms in the back
of the plant. The machine had done it for me this time, then locked the
keyboard so I couldn't enter the order twice. I think I held down the
kicker button for a full five minutes that day."
  
 
  "This kicker button," Peter said tentatively, "it's like the pleasure
center in an animal's brain, isn't it?"
  
