 
  LEX
  
 
  By W. T. HAGGERT
  
 
  Illustrated by WOOD
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Galaxy Magazine August 1959.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
 
   Nothing in the world could be happier and
    
   mere serene than a man who loves his work—but
    
   what happens when it loves him back?
   
 
 
 
  Keep your nerve, Peter Manners told himself; it's only a job. But nerve
has to rest on a sturdier foundation than cash reserves just above zero
and eviction if he came away from this interview still unemployed.
Clay, at the Association of Professional Engineers, who had set up the
appointment, hadn't eased Peter's nervousness by admitting, "I don't
know what in hell he's looking for. He's turned down every man we've
sent him."
  
 
  The interview was at three. Fifteen minutes to go. Coming early would
betray overeagerness. Peter stood in front of the Lex Industries plant
and studied it to kill time. Plain, featureless concrete walls, not
large for a manufacturing plant—it took a scant minute to exhaust its
sightseeing potential. If he walked around the building, he could, if
he ambled, come back to the front entrance just before three.
  
 
  He turned the corner, stopped, frowned, wondering what there was about
the building that seemed so puzzling. It could not have been plainer,
more ordinary. It was in fact, he only gradually realized, so plain and
ordinary that it was like no other building he had ever seen.
  
 
  There had been windows at the front. There were none at the side, and
none at the rear. Then how were the working areas lit? He looked for
the electric service lines and found them at one of the rear corners.
They jolted him. The distribution transformers were ten times as large
as they should have been for a plant this size.
  
 
  Something else was wrong. Peter looked for minutes before he found out
what it was. Factories usually have large side doorways for employees
changing shifts. This building had one small office entrance facing the
street, and the only other door was at the loading bay—big enough to
handle employee traffic, but four feet above the ground. Without any
stairs, it could be used only by trucks backing up to it. Maybe the
employees' entrance was on the third side.
  
 
  It wasn't.
  
