It made Peter feel he had been suckered, but he had decided to play
this straight all the way. He nodded.
  
 
  "Why'd you leave?" Lexington pursued, unrelenting.
  
 
  "I finished the course and the increase they offered on a permanent
basis wasn't enough, so I went elsewhere—"
  
 
  "With your head full of this nonsense about a shortage of engineers."
  
 
  Peter swallowed. "I thought it would be easier to get a job than it has
been, yes."
  
 
  "They start the talk about a shortage and then they keep it going. Why?
So youngsters will take up engineering thinking they'll wind up among a
highly paid minority. You did, didn't you?"
  
 
  "Yes, sir."
  
 
  "And so did all the others there with you, at school and in this
stockpiling outfit?"
  
 
  "That's right."
  
 
  "Well," said Lexington unexpectedly, "there
   
   is
   
  a shortage! And the
stockpiles are the ones who made it, and who keep it going! And the
hell of it is that they can't stop—when one does it, they all have
to, or their costs get out of line and they can't compete. What's the
solution?"
  
 
  "I don't know," Peter said.
  
 
  Lexington leaned back. "That's quite a lot of admissions you've made.
What makes you think you're qualified for the job I'm offering?"
  
 
  "You said you wanted an engineer."
  
 
  "And I've just proved you're less of an engineer than when you left
school. I have, haven't I?"
  
 
  "All right, you have," Peter said angrily.
  
 
  "And now you're wondering why I don't get somebody fresh out of school.
Right?"
  
 
  Peter straightened up and met the old man's challenging gaze. "That and
whether you're giving me a hard time just for the hell of it."
  
 
  "Well, am I?" Lexington demanded.
  
 
  Looking at him squarely, seeing the intensity of the pain-drawn eyes,
Peter had the startling feeling that Lexington was rooting for him!
"No, you're not."
  
 
  "Then what am I after?"
  
 
  "Suppose you tell me."
  
 
  So suddenly that it was almost like a collapse, the tension went out
of the old man's face and shoulders. He nodded with inexpressible
tiredness. "Good again. The man I want doesn't exist. He has to
be made—the same as I was. You qualify, so far. You've lost your
illusions, but haven't had time yet to replace them with dogma or
cynicism or bitterness. You saw immediately that fake humility
or cockiness wouldn't get you anywhere here, and you were right.
Those were the important things. The background data I got from the
Association on you counted, of course, but only if you were teachable.
I think you are. Am I right?"
  
 
  "At least I can face knowing how much I don't know," said Peter, "if
that answers the question."
  
 
  "It does. Partly. What did you notice about this plant?"
  
 
  In precis form, Peter listed his observations: the absence of windows
at sides and rear, the unusual amount of power, the automatic doors,
the lack of employees' entrances.
  
 
  "Very good," said Lexington. "Most people only notice the automatic
doors. Anything else?"
  
 
  "Yes," Peter said. "You're the only person I've seen in the building."
  
 
  "I'm the only one there is."
  
 
  Peter stared his disbelief. Automated plants were nothing new, but
they all had their limitations. Either they dealt with exactly similar
products or things that could be handled on a flow basis, like oil or
water-soluble chemicals. Even these had no more to do than process the
goods.
  
 
  "Come on," said Lexington, getting massively to his feet. "I'll show
you."
  
