When Lexington beamed, Peter felt a surge of relief. Talking with this
man was like walking a tightrope. A word too much or a word too little
might mean the difference between getting the job or losing it.
  
 
  "Exactly!" whispered Lexington, in an almost conspiratorial tone. "I
had altered the circuitry of the machine so that it tried to give
me pleasure—because by doing so, its own pleasure circuit would be
activated.
  
 
  "Things went fast from then on. Once I realized that the machine
was learning, I put TV monitors all over the place, so the machine
could watch everything that was going on. After a short while I had
to increase the memory bank, and later I increased it again, but the
rewards were worth it. Soon, by watching what I did, and then by doing
it for me next time it had to be done, the machine had learned to do
almost everything, and I had time to sit back and count my winnings."
  
 
  At this point the door opened, and a small self-propelled cart wheeled
silently into the room. Stopping in front of Peter, it waited until he
had taken a small plate laden with two or three cakes off its surface.
Then the soft, evenly modulated voice he had heard before asked, "How
do you like your coffee? Cream, sugar, both or black?"
  
 
  Peter looked for the speaker in the side of the cart, saw nothing, and
replied, feeling slightly silly as he did so, "Black, please."
  
 
  A square hole appeared in the top of the cart, like the elevator hole
in an aircraft carrier's deck. When the section of the cart's surface
rose again, a fine china cup containing steaming black coffee rested
on it. Peter took it and sipped it, as he supposed he was expected to
do, while the cart proceeded over to Lexington's desk. Once there, it
stopped again, and another cup of coffee rose to its surface.
  
 
 
 
  Lexington took the coffee from the top of the car, obviously angry
about something. Silently, he waited until the cart had left the
office, then snapped, "Look at those bloody cups!"
  
 
  Peter looked at his, which was eggshell thin, fluted with carving and
ornately covered with gold leaf. "They look very expensive," he said.
  
 
  "Not only expensive, but stupid and impractical!" exploded Lexington.
"They only hold half a cup, they'll break at a touch, every one has to
be matched with its own saucer, and if you use them for any length of
time, the gold leaf comes off!"
  
 
  Peter searched for a comment, found none that fitted this odd outburst,
so he kept silent.
  
