The office door opened, and Peter found himself being led down the
antiseptic corridor to another door which had opened, giving access to
the manufacturing area. As they moved along, between rows of seemingly
disorganized machinery, Peter noticed that the factory lights high
overhead followed their progress, turning themselves on in advance
of their coming, and going out after they had passed, keeping a pool
of illumination only in the immediate area they occupied. Soon they
reached a large door which Peter recognized as the inside of the truck
loading door he had seen from outside.
  
 
  Lexington paused here. "This is the bay used by the trucks arriving
with raw materials," he said. "They back up to this door, and a set
of automatic jacks outside lines up the trailer body with the door
exactly. Then the door opens and the truck is unloaded by these
materials handling machines."
  
 
  Peter didn't see him touch anything, but as he spoke, three glistening
machines, apparently self-powered, rolled noiselessly up to the door in
formation and stopped there, apparently waiting to be inspected.
  
 
  They gave Peter the creeps. Simple square boxes, set on casters, with
two arms each mounted on the sides might have looked similar. The arms,
fashioned much like human arms, hung at the sides, not limply, but in a
relaxed position that somehow indicated readiness.
  
 
  Lexington went over to one of them and patted it lovingly. "Really,
these machines are only an extension of one large machine. The whole
plant, as a matter of fact, is controlled from one point and is really
a single unit. These materials handlers, or manipulators, were about
the toughest things in the place to design. But they're tremendously
useful. You'll see a lot of them around."
  
 
  Lexington was about to leave the side of the machine when abruptly one
of the arms rose to the handkerchief in his breast pocket and daintily
tugged it into a more attractive position. It took only a split second,
and before Lexington could react, all three machines were moving away
to attend to mysterious duties of their own.
  
 
 
 
  Peter tore his eyes away from them in time to see the look of
frustrated embarrassment that crossed Lexington's face, only to be
replaced by one of anger. He said nothing, however, and led Peter to
a large bay where racks of steel plate, bar forms, nuts, bolts, and
other materials were stored.
  
 
  "After unloading a truck, the machines check the shipment, report any
shortages or overages, and store the materials here," he said, the
trace of anger not yet gone from his voice. "When an order is received,
it's translated into the catalogue numbers used internally within the
plant, and machines like the ones you just saw withdraw the necessary
materials from stock, make the component parts, assemble them, and
package the finished goods for shipment. Simultaneously, an order is
sent to the billing section to bill the customer, and an order is
sent to our trucker to come and pick the shipment up. Meanwhile, if
the withdrawal of the materials required has depleted our stock, the
purchasing section is instructed to order more raw materials. I'll take
you through the manufacturing and assembly sections right now, but
they're too noisy for me to explain what's going on while we're there."
  
