Peter followed numbly as Lexington led him through a maze of machines,
each one seemingly intent on cutting, bending, welding, grinding
or carrying some bit of metal, or just standing idle, waiting for
something to do. The two-armed manipulators Peter had just seen were
everywhere, scuttling from machine to machine, apparently with an
exact knowledge of what they were doing and the most efficient way of
doing it.
  
 
  He wondered what would happen if one of them tried to use the same
aisle they were using. He pictured a futile attempt to escape the
onrushing wheels, saw himself clambering out of the path of the
speeding vehicle just in time to fall into the jaws of the punch press
that was laboring beside him at the moment. Nervously, he looked for an
exit, but his apprehension was unnecessary. The machines seemed to know
where they were and avoided the two men, or stopped to wait for them to
go by.
  
 
  Back in the office section of the building, Lexington indicated a small
room where a typewriter could be heard clattering away. "Standard
business machines, operated by the central control mechanism. In
that room," he said, as the door swung open and Peter saw that the
typewriter was actually a sort of teletype, with no one before the
keyboard, "incoming mail is sorted and inquiries are replied to. In
this one over here, purchase orders are prepared, and across the hall
there's a very similar rig set up in conjunction with an automatic
bookkeeper to keep track of the pennies and to bill the customers."
  
 
  "Then all you do is read the incoming mail and maintain the machinery?"
asked Peter, trying to shake off the feeling of open amazement that
had engulfed him.
  
 
  "I don't even do those things, except for a few letters that come in
every week that—it doesn't want to deal with by itself."
  
 
  The shock of what he had just seen was showing plainly on Peter's face
when they walked back into Lexington's office and sat down. Lexington
looked at him for quite a while without saying anything, his face
sagging and pale. Peter didn't trust himself to speak, and let the
silence remain unbroken.
  
 
  Finally Lexington spoke. "I know it's hard to believe, but there it is."
  
 
  "Hard to believe?" said Peter. "I almost can't. The trade journals run
articles about factories like this one, but planned for ten, maybe
twenty years in the future."
  
 
  "Damn fools!" exclaimed Lexington, getting part of his breath back.
"They could have had it years ago, if they'd been willing to drop their
idiotic notions about specialization."
  
 
  Lexington mopped his forehead with a large white handkerchief.
Apparently the walk through the factory had tired him considerably,
although it hadn't been strenuous.
  
