Staring back at the last blank wall, Peter suddenly remembered the time
he had set out to kill. He looked at his watch and gasped. At a run,
set to straight-arm the door, he almost fell on his face. The door had
opened by itself. He stopped and looked for a photo-electric eye, but
a soft voice said through a loudspeaker in the anteroom wall: "Mr.
Manners?"
  
 
  "What?" he panted. "Who—?"
  
 
  "You
   
   are
   
  Mr. Manners?" the voice asked.
  
 
  He nodded, then realized he had to answer aloud if there was a
microphone around; but the soft voice said: "Follow the open doors down
the hall. Mr. Lexington is expecting you."
  
 
  "Thanks," Peter said, and a door at one side of the anteroom swung open
for him.
  
 
  He went through it with his composure slipping still further from his
grip. This was no way to go into an interview, but doors kept opening
before and shutting after him, until only one was left, and the last of
his calm was blasted away by a bellow from within.
  
 
  "Don't stand out there like a jackass! Either come in or go away!"
  
 
  Peter found himself leaping obediently toward the doorway. He stopped
just short of it, took a deep breath and huffed it out, took another,
all the while thinking, Hold on now; you're in no shape for an
interview—and it's not your fault—this whole setup is geared to
unnerve you: the kindergarten kid called in to see the principal.
  
 
  He let another bellow bounce off him as he blew out the second breath,
straightened his jacket and tie, and walked in as an engineer applying
for a position should.
  
 
  "Mr. Lexington?" he said. "I'm Peter Manners. The Association—"
  
 
  "Sit down," said the man at the desk. "Let's look you over."
  
 
  He was a huge man behind an even huger desk. Peter took a chair in
front of the desk and let himself be inspected. It wasn't comfortable.
He did some looking over of his own to ease the tension.
  
 
  The room was more than merely large, carpeted throughout with
a high-pile, rich, sound-deadening rug. The oversized desk and
massive leather chairs, heavy patterned drapes, ornately framed
paintings—by God, even a glass-brick manteled fireplace and bowls with
flowers!—made him feel as if he had walked down a hospital corridor
into Hollywood's idea of an office.
  
 
  His eyes eventually had to move to Lexington, and they were daunted
for another instant. This was a citadel of a man—great girders of
frame supporting buttresses of muscle—with a vaulting head and
drawbridge chin and a steel gaze that defied any attempt to storm it.
  
 
  But then Peter came out of his momentary flinch, and there was an age
to the man, about 65, and he saw the muscles had turned to fat, the
complexion ashen, the eyes set deep as though retreating from pain, and
this was a citadel of a man, yes, but beginning to crumble.
  
 
  "What can you do?" asked Lexington abruptly.
  
