The room was large, as rooms went nowadays—thirty by twenty, with deck
upon deck of Donnerson micro-memory-tubes racked along one wall and a
bank of microfilm records along the other. In six weeks of life Popeek
had piled up an impressive collection of data.
  
 
  While he stood there, the computer chattered, lights flashed. New facts
poured into the memory banks. It probably went on day and night.
  
 
  "Can I help—oh, it's you, Mr. Walton," a white-smocked technician
said. Popeek employed a small army of technicians, each one faceless
and without personality, but always ready to serve. "Is there anything
I can do?"
  
 
  "I'm simply running a routine checkup. Mind if I use the machine?"
  
 
  "Not at all, sir. Go right ahead."
  
 
  Walton grinned lightly and stepped forward. The technician practically
backed out of his presence.
  
 
 
   No doubt I must radiate charisma
   
  , he thought. Within the building he
wore a sort of luminous halo, by virtue of being Director FitzMaugham's
protégé and second-in-command. Outside, in the colder reality of the
crowded metropolis, he kept his identity and Popeek rank quietly to
himself.
  
 
  Frowning, he tried to remember the Prior boy's name. Ah ... Philip,
wasn't it? He punched out a request for the card on Philip Prior.
  
 
  A moment's pause followed, while the millions of tiny cryotronic
circuits raced with information pulses, searching the Donnerson
tubes for Philip Prior's record. Then, a brief squeaking sound and a
yellow-brown card dropped out of the slot:
  
 
 
   3216847AB1
   
 
 
 
   PRIOR, Philip Hugh. Born 31 May 2232, New York General Hospital, New
York. First son of Prior, Lyle Martin and Prior, Ava Leonard. Wgt. at
birth 5lb. 3oz.
   
 
 
  An elaborate description of the boy in great detail followed, ending
with blood type, agglutinating characteristic, and gene-pattern,
codified. Walton skipped impatiently through that and came to the
notification typed in curt, impersonal green capital letters at the
bottom of the card:
  
 
 
   EXAMINED AT N Y EUTH CLINIC 10 JUNE 2332
   
 
 
   EUTHANASIA RECOMMENDED
   
 
 
  He glanced at his watch: the time was 1026. The boy was probably still
somewhere in the clinic lab, waiting for the figurative axe to descend.
  
 
  Walton had set up the schedule himself: the gas chamber delivered
Happysleep each day at 1100 and 1500. He had about half an hour to save
Philip Prior.
  
 
  He peered covertly over his shoulder; no one was in sight. He slipped
the baby's card into his breast pocket.
  
 
  That done, he typed out a requisition for explanation of the
gene-sorting code the clinic used. Symbols began pouring forth,
and Walton puzzledly correlated them with the line of gibberish on
Phillip Prior's record card. Finally he found the one he wanted:
   
   3f2,
tubercular-prone
   
  .
  
 
  He scrapped the guide sheet he had and typed out a message to the
machine.
   
   Revision of card number 3216847AB1 follows. Please alter in
all circuits.
   
 
 
  He proceeded to retype the child's card, omitting both the fatal symbol
   
   3f2
   
  and the notation recommending euthanasia from the new version.
The machine beeped an acknowledgement. Walton smiled. So far, so good.
  
 
  Then, he requested the boy's file all over again. After the customary
pause, a card numbered 3216847AB1 dropped out of the slot. He read it.
  
 
  The deletions had been made. As far as the machine was concerned,
Philip Prior was a normal, healthy baby.
  
 
  He glanced at his watch. 1037. Still twenty-three minutes before this
morning's haul of unfortunates was put away.
  
 
  Now came the real test: could he pry the baby away from the doctors
without attracting too much attention to himself in the process?
  
