Five doctors were bustling back and forth as Walton entered the main
section of the clinic. There must have been a hundred babies there,
each in a little pen of its own, and the doctors were humming from one
to the next, while anxious parents watched from screens above.
  
 
  The Equalization Law provided that every child be presented at its
local clinic within two weeks of birth, for an examination and a
certificate. Perhaps one in ten thousand would be denied a
certificate ... and life.
  
 
  "Hello, Mr. Walton. What brings you down here?"
  
 
  Walton smiled affably. "Just a routine investigation, Doctor. I try to
keep in touch with every department we have, you know."
  
 
  "Mr. FitzMaugham was down here to look around a little while ago. We're
really getting a going-over today, Mr. Walton!"
  
 
  "Umm. Yes." Walton didn't like that, but there was nothing he could
do about it. He'd have to rely on the old man's abiding faith in his
protégé to pull him out of any possible stickiness that arose.
  
 
  "Seen my brother around?" he asked.
  
 
  "Fred? He's working in room seven, running analyses. Want me to get him
for you, Mr. Walton?"
  
 
  "No—no, don't bother him, thanks. I'll find him later." Inwardly,
Walton felt relieved. Fred Walton, his younger brother, was a doctor in
the employ of Popeek. Little love was lost between the brothers, and
Roy did not care to have Fred know he was down there.
  
 
  Strolling casually through the clinic, he peered at a few plump,
squalling babies, and said, "Find many sour ones today?"
  
 
  "Seven so far. They're scheduled for the 1100 chamber. Three tuberc,
two blind, one congenital syph."
  
 
  "That only makes six," Walton said.
  
 
  "Oh, and a spastic," the doctor said. "Biggest haul we've had yet.
Seven in one morning."
  
 
  "Have any trouble with the parents?"
  
 
  "What do you think?" the doctor asked. "But some of them seemed to
understand. One of the tuberculars nearly raised the roof, though."
  
 
  Walton shuddered. "You remember his name?" he asked, with feigned calm.
  
 
  Silence for a moment. "No. Darned if I can think of it. I can look it
up for you if you like."
  
 
  "Don't bother," Walton said hurriedly.
  
 
  He moved on, down the winding corridor that led to the execution
chamber. Falbrough, the executioner, was studying a list of names at
his desk when Walton appeared.
  
 
  Falbrough didn't look like the sort of man who would enjoy his work. He
was short and plump, with a high-domed bald head and glittering contact
lenses in his weak blue eyes. "Morning, Mr. Walton."
  
 
  "Good morning, Doctor Falbrough. You'll be operating soon, won't you?"
  
 
  "Eleven hundred, as usual."
  
 
  "Good. There's a new regulation in effect from now on," Walton said.
"To keep public opinion on our side."
  
 
  "Sir?"
  
 
  "Henceforth, until further notice, you're to check each baby that
comes to you against the main file, just to make sure there's been no
mistake. Got that?"
  
 
  "
   
   Mistake?
   
  But how—"
  
 
  "Never mind that, Falbrough. There was quite a tragic slip-up at one
of the European centers yesterday. We may all hang for it if news gets
out."
   
   How glibly I reel this stuff off
   
  , Walton thought in amazement.
  
 
  Falbrough looked grave. "I see, sir. Of course. We'll double-check
everything from now on."
  
 
  "Good. Begin with the 1100 batch."
  
 
  Walton couldn't bear to remain down in the clinic any longer. He left
via a side exit, and signaled for a lift tube.
  
 
  Minutes later he was back in his office, behind the security of a
towering stack of work. His pulse was racing; his throat was dry. He
remembered what FitzMaugham had said:
   
   Once we make even one exception,
the whole framework crumbles.
   
 
 
  Well, the framework had begun crumbling, then. And there was little
doubt in Walton's mind that FitzMaugham knew or would soon know what he
had done. He would have to cover his traces, somehow.
  
 
  The annunciator chimed and said, "Dr. Falbrough of Happysleep calling
you, sir."
  
 
  "Put him on."
  
 
  The screen lit and Falbrough's face appeared; its normal blandness had
given way to wild-eyed tenseness.
  
 
  "What is it, Doctor?"
  
 
  "It's a good thing you issued that order when you did, sir! You'll
never guess what just happened—"
  
 
  "No guessing games, Falbrough. Speak up."
  
 
  "I—well, sir, I ran checks on the seven babies they sent me this
morning. And guess—I mean—well, one of them shouldn't have been sent
to me!"
  
 
  "No!"
  
 
  "It's the truth, sir. A cute little baby indeed. I've got his card
right here. The boy's name is Philip Prior, and his gene-pattern is
fine."
  
 
  "Any recommendation for euthanasia on the card?" Walton asked.
  
 
  "No, sir."
  
 
  Walton chewed at a ragged cuticle for a moment, counterfeiting great
anxiety. "Falbrough, we're going to have to keep this very quiet.
Someone slipped up in the examining room, and if word gets out that
there's been as much as one mistake, we'll have a mob swarming over us
in half an hour."
  
 
  "Yes, sir." Falbrough looked terribly grave. "What should I do, sir?"
  
 
  "Don't say a word about this to
   
   anyone
   
  , not even the men in the
examining room. Fill out a certificate for the boy, find his parents,
apologize and return him to them. And make sure you keep checking for
any future cases of this sort."
  
 
  "Certainly, sir. Is that all?"
  
 
  "It is," Walton said crisply, and broke the contact. He took a deep
breath and stared bleakly at the far wall.
  
 
  The Prior boy was safe. And in the eyes of the law—the Equalization
Law—Roy Walton was now a criminal. He was every bit as much a criminal
as the man who tried to hide his dying father from the investigators,
or the anxious parents who attempted to bribe an examining doctor.
  
 
  He felt curiously dirty. And, now that he had betrayed FitzMaugham and
the Cause, now that it was done, he had little idea why he had done
it, why he had jeopardized the Popeek program, his position—his life,
even—for the sake of one potentially tubercular baby.
  
 
  Well, the thing was done.
  
 
  No. Not quite. Later, when things had quieted down, he would have to
finish the job by transferring all the men in the clinic to distant
places and by obliterating the computer's memories of this morning's
activities.
  
 
  The annunciator chimed again. "Your brother is on the wire, sir."
  
 
  Walton trembled imperceptibly as he said, "Put him on." Somehow, Fred
never called unless he could say or do something unpleasant. And
Walton was very much afraid that his brother meant no good by this
call. No good at all.
  
 
 
  III
  
 
  Roy Walton watched his brother's head and shoulders take form out of
the swirl of colors on the screen. Fred Walton was more compact, built
closer to the ground than his rangy brother; he was a squat five-seven,
next to Roy's lean six-two. Fred had always threatened to "get even"
with his older brother as soon as they were the same size, but to
Fred's great dismay he had never managed to catch up with Roy in height.
  
 
  Even on the screen, Fred's neck and shoulders gave an impression of
tremendous solidity and force. Walton waited for his brother's image to
take shape, and when the time lag was over he said, "Well, Fred? What
goes?"
  
 
  His brother's eyes flickered sleepily. "They tell me you were down here
a little while ago, Roy. How come I didn't rate a visit?"
  
 
  "I wasn't in your section. It was official business, anyway. I didn't
have time."
  
 
  Walton fixed his eyes sharply on the caduceus emblem gleaming on Fred's
lapel, and refused to look anywhere else.
  
 
  Fred said slowly, "You had time to tinker with our computer, though."
  
 
  "Official business!"
  
 
  "Really, Roy?" His brother's tone was venomous. "I happened to
be using the computer shortly after you this morning. I was
curious—unpardonably so, dear brother. I requested a transcript of
your conversation with the machine."
  
 
  Sparks seemed to flow from the screen. Walton sat back, feeling numb.
He managed to pull his sagging mouth back into a stiff hard line and
say, "That's a criminal offense, Fred. Any use I make of a Popeek
computer outlet is confidential."
  
 
  "Criminal offence? Maybe so ... but that makes two of us, then. Eh,
Roy?"
  
 
  "How much do you know?"
  
 
  "You wouldn't want me to recite it over a public communications system,
would you? Your friend FitzMaugham might be listening to every word of
this, and I have too much fraternal feeling for that. Ole Doc Walton
doesn't want to get his bigwig big brother in trouble—oh, no!"
  
 
  "Thanks for small blessings," Roy said acidly.
  
 
  "You got me this job. You can take it away. Let's call it even for now,
shall we?"
  
 
  "Anything you like," Walton said. He was drenched in sweat, though
the ingenious executive filter in the sending apparatus of the screen
cloaked that fact and presented him as neat and fresh. "I have some
work to do now." His voice was barely audible.
  
 
  "I won't keep you any longer, then," Fred said.
  
 
  The screen went dead.
  
 
  Walton killed the contact at his end, got up, walked to the window. He
nudged the opaquer control and the frosty white haze over the glass
cleared away, revealing the fantastic beehive of the city outside.
  
 
 
   Idiot!
   
  he thought.
   
   Fool!
   
 
 
  He had risked everything to save one baby, one child probably doomed
to an early death anyway. And FitzMaugham knew—the old man could see
through Walton with ease—and Fred knew, too. His brother, and his
father-substitute.
  
 
  FitzMaugham might well choose to conceal Roy's defection this time,
but would surely place less trust in him in the future. And as for
Fred....
  
 
  There was no telling what Fred might do. They had never been
particularly close as brothers; they had lived with their parents (now
almost totally forgotten) until Roy was nine and Fred seven. Their
parents had gone down off Maracaibo in a jet crash; Roy and Fred had
been sent to the public crèche.
  
 
  After that it had been separate paths for the brothers. For Roy, an
education in the law, a short spell as Senator FitzMaugham's private
secretary, followed last month by his sudden elevation to assistant
administrator of the newly-created Popeek Bureau. For Fred, medicine,
unsuccessful private practice, finally a job in the Happysleep section
of Popeek, thanks to Roy.
  
 
