 
  MIGHTIEST QORN
  
 
  BY KEITH LAUMER
  
 
  Sly, brave and truculent, the Qornt
   
  held all humans in contempt—except one!
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Worlds of If Science Fiction, July 1963.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  I
  
 
  Ambassador Nitworth glowered across his mirror-polished, nine-foot
platinum desk at his assembled staff.
  
 
  "Gentlemen, are any of you familiar with a race known as the Qornt?"
  
 
  There was a moment of profound silence. Nitworth leaned forward,
looking solemn.
  
 
  "They were a warlike race known in this sector back in Concordiat
times, perhaps two hundred years ago. They vanished as suddenly as
they had appeared. There was no record of where they went." He paused
for effect.
  
 
  "They have now reappeared—occupying the inner planet of this system!"
  
 
  "But, sir," Second Secretary Magnan offered. "That's uninhabited
Terrestrial territory...."
  
 
  "Indeed, Mr. Magnan?" Nitworth smiled icily. "It appears the Qornt do
not share that opinion." He plucked a heavy parchment from a folder
before him, harrumphed and read aloud:
  
 
  His Supreme Excellency The Qorn, Regent of Qornt, Over-Lord of the
Galactic Destiny, Greets the Terrestrials and, with reference to the
presence in mandated territory of Terrestrial squatters, has the honor
to advise that he will require the use of his outer world on the
thirtieth day. Then will the Qornt come with steel and fire. Receive,
Terrestrials, renewed assurances of my awareness of your existence,
and let Those who dare gird for the contest.
  
 
  "Frankly, I wouldn't call it conciliatory," Magnan said.
  
 
  Nitworth tapped the paper with a finger.
  
 
  "We have been served, gentlemen, with nothing less than an Ultimatum!"
  
 
  "Well, we'll soon straighten these fellows out—" the Military Attache
began.
  
 
  "There happens to be more to this piece of truculence than appears on
the surface," the Ambassador cut in. He paused, waiting for interested
frowns to settle into place.
  
 
  "Note, gentlemen, that these invaders have appeared on terrestrial
controlled soil—and without so much as a flicker from the instruments
of the Navigational Monitor Service!"
  
 
  The Military Attache blinked. "That's absurd," he said flatly. Nitworth
slapped the table.
  
 
  "We're up against something new, gentlemen! I've considered every
hypothesis from cloaks of invisibility to time travel! The fact is—the
Qornt fleets are indetectible!"
  
