They went into a courtyard partly covered by a roof projecting from
the Hazeltyne company's dome settlement. The far half of the courtyard
was open to the gray drizzle that fell almost ceaselessly from the sky
of Jordan's Planet and turned most of its surface into marsh and mud
flats. A high wall enclosed the far portion of the courtyard. Ranged
along the wall were thirty stalls for muck men.
  
 
  From fifty yards across the courtyard a muck man bounded over to them
in two leaps. Attached to a harness across his shoulders and chest were
a gun and a long knife.
  
 
  "Names?" he growled. He was a foot taller than Graybar and big
everywhere in proportion.
  
 
  "Kershaw. I'm back, Furston."
  
 
  "I'm Graybar."
  
 
  "Kershaw again? Just start in where you left off, sucker. Come on,
you." He pointed to Asa and leaped to the open portion of the courtyard.
  
 
  "Do what he says," Kershaw whispered to Graybar. "He's sort of a trusty
and warden and parole officer rolled into one."
  
 
  Asa was put through a series of exercises to get him used to his
distorted body, to teach him how to leap and how to dig. He was shown
how to operate the radio he would carry and how to fire the pencil-slim
rockets of this gun. Finally he was told to eat a few berries from a
native vine. He did so and immediately vomited.
  
 
  Furston laughed.
  
 
  "That's to remind you you're still a man," Furston said, grinning.
"Everything that grows on this planet is poison. So if you got any
ideas of hiding out till your term is up, forget 'em. Right here is
where you eat."
  
 
  Asa turned without a word and hopped feebly away from Furston. He
lifted his head to breathe deeply and saw two humans watching him from
an observation tower on the roof.
  
 
  He leaped twenty feet into the air for a closer look.
  
 
  Gazing at him with repugnance, after witnessing the end of his session
with Furston, were Harriet Hazeltyne and general manager Tom Dorr.
  
 
  The girl's presence merely puzzled Asa, but Dorr's being here worried
him. Dorr had tried to get rid of him once and was now in an excellent
position to make the riddance permanent.
  
 
  At supper that night, squatting on the ground beside a low table with
the dozen other muck men operating from the dome, Asa asked what the
two were doing out here.
  
 
  "The girl will inherit this racket some day, won't she?" asked one of
the others. "She wants to see what kind of suckers are making her rich."
  
 
  "Maybe that guy Dorr brought her along to show her what a big wheel
he is," said one of the others. "Just hope he doesn't take over the
operations."
  
 
 
  III
  
 
  Next morning Furston passed out guns, knives, radios, and pouches to
carry any eggs the muck men found. He gave each man a compass and
assigned the sectors to be worked during the day. Finally he called
Graybar aside.
  
 
  "In case you don't like it here," Furston said, "you can get a week
knocked off your sentence for every egg you bring in. Now get out there
and work that muck."
  
 
  Furston sent Graybar and Kershaw out together so that the veteran could
show Asa the ropes. Asa had already learned that the wall around the
courtyard was to keep Sliders out, not muck men in. He leaped over it
and hopped along after Kershaw.
  
 
  Feet slapping against the mud, they went about five miles from the
Hazeltyne station, swimming easily across ponds too broad to jump. The
mud, if not precisely as pleasant to the touch as chinchilla fur, was
not at all uncomfortable, and the dripping air caressed their skins
like a summer breeze back on Earth. Tiny, slippery creatures skidded
and splashed out of their way. Finally Kershaw stopped. His experienced
eye had seen a trail of swamp weeds crushed low into the mud.
  
 
  "Keep your eyes open," Kershaw said. "There's a Slider been around here
lately. If you see something like an express train headed our way,
start shooting."
  
 
  At each leap along the trail they peered quickly around. They saw no
Sliders, but this meant little, for the beasts lived under the mud as
much as on top of it.
  
 
  Kershaw halted again when they came to a roughly circular area some ten
yards in diameter where the weeds had been torn out and lay rotting in
the muck.
  
 
  "We're in luck," he said as Asa skidded to a stop at his side. "An egg
was laid somewhere here within the last week. These places are hard to
spot when the new weeds start growing."
  
 
  Kershaw took a long look around.
  
 
  "No trouble in sight. We dig."
  
 
  They started at the center of the cleared area, shoveling up great gobs
of mud with their hands and flinging them out of the clearing. Usually
a muck man dug in a spiral out from the center, but Graybar and Kershaw
dug in gradually widening semi-circles opposite each other. They had
to dig four feet deep, and it was slow going until they had a pit
big enough to stand in. Each handful of mud had to be squeezed gently
before it was thrown away, to make sure it didn't conceal an egg. As he
worked, Asa kept thinking what an inefficient system it was. Everything
about the operation was wrong.
  
 
  "Got it!" Kershaw shouted. He leaped out of the pit and started wiping
slime off a round object the size of a baseball. Asa jumped out to
watch.
  
 
  "A big one," Kershaw said. He held it, still smeared with traces of
mud, lovingly to his cheek, and then lifted it to eye level. "Just look
at it."
  
 
 
  A SLIDER EGG
  
 
 
  The egg was flashing with a mad radiance, like a thousand diamonds
being splintered under a brilliant sun. Static crackled in Asa's
earphones and he thought of what Kershaw had said, that the
scintillation of an egg was an effect of its calls to a mother Slider
for help. Asa looked around.
  
 
  "Jump!" he shouted.
  
 
  At the edge of the clearing a segmented length of greenish black
scales, some two feet thick and six feet high, had reared up out of the
weeds. The top segment was almost all mouth, already opened to show row
upon row of teeth. Before Asa could draw his gun the Slider lowered
its head to the ground, dug two front flippers into the mud and shot
forward.
  
 
  Asa leaped with all his strength, sailing far out of the clearing.
While he was still in the air he snapped the mouthpiece of his radio
down from where it was hinged over his head. As he landed he turned
instantly, his gun in his hand.
  
 
  "Calling the 'copter!" he spoke rapidly into the mouthpiece. "Kershaw
and Graybar, sector eight, five miles out. Hurry!"
  
 
  "Graybar?" asked a voice in his earphone. "What's up?"
  
 
  "We've got an egg but a Slider wants it back."
  
 
  "On the way."
  
 
  Asa hopped back to the clearing. Kershaw must have been bowled over by
the Slider's first rush, for he was trying to hop on one leg as if the
other had been broken. The egg lay flickering on top of the mud where
Kershaw had dropped it. The Slider, eight flippers on each side working
madly, was twisting its thirty feet of wormlike body around for another
charge.
  
 
  Aiming hastily, Asa fired a rocket at the monster's middle segment. The
rocket smashed through hard scales and exploded in a fountain of gray
flesh. The Slider writhed, coating its wound in mud, and twisted toward
Asa. He leaped to one side, firing from the air and missing, and saw
the Slider turn toward the patch of weeds where he would land. His legs
were tensed to leap again the moment he hit the mud, but he saw the
Slider would be on top of him before he could escape. As he landed he
thrust his gun forward almost into the mouth of the creature and fired
again.
  
 
 
 
  Even as he was knocked aside into the muck, Asa's body was showered
with shreds of alien flesh scattered by the rocket's explosion.
Desperately pushing himself to his feet, he saw the long headless body
shiver and lie still.
  
