Since it was cheaper to transport a normal human than to rig special
environments in a spaceship, every planet operated its own conversion
chambers. On the space freighter that carried him from Earth Asa
Graybar was confined to a small cabin that was opened only for a guard
to bring meals and take out dirty dishes. He was still a prisoner.
  
 
  Sometimes he could hear voices in the passageway outside, and once
one of them sounded like a woman's. But since women neither served on
spaceships nor worked in the dome settlements on harsher worlds, he
decided it was his imagination. He might have been dead cargo for all
he learned about space travel.
  
 
  Nevertheless his time was not wasted. He had as a companion, or
cellmate, another convict who had elected conversion to muck man. More
important, his companion had done time on Jordan's Planet before and
had wanted to return.
  
 
  "It's the Slider eggs," explained Kershaw, the two-time loser. "The
ones you see on Earth knock your eyes out, but they've already begun
to die. There's nothing like a fresh one. And I'm not the first to
go crazy over them. When I was reconverted and got home I had nine
thousand dollars waiting for me. That'll buy a two-year-old egg that
flashes maybe four times a day. So I stole a new one and got caught."
  
 
  Asa had held a Slider egg in his hand as he gazed into it. He could
understand. The shell was clear as crystal, taut but elastic, while
the albumen was just as clear around the sparkling network of organic
filaments that served as a yolk. Along these interior threads played
tiny flashes of lightning, part of some unexplained process of life.
Electrical instruments picked up static discharges from the egg, but
the phenomenon remained a mystery.
  
 
  Hardly anyone faced with the beauty of a Slider's egg bothered to
question its workings. For a few expectant moments there would be only
random, fitful gleamings, and then there would be a wild coruscation of
light, dancing from one filament to the next in a frenzy of brilliance.
  
 
  It took about four years for a Slider egg to die. Beauty, rarity and
fading value made the eggs a luxury item like nothing the world had
ever seen. If Asa had found a means of keeping them alive it would have
made him wealthy at the expense of the Hazeltyne monopoly.
  
 
  "You know what I think?" Kershaw asked. "I think those flashes are
the egg calling its momma. They sparkle like a million diamonds when
you scoop one out of the muck, and right away a Slider always comes
swooping out of nowhere at you."
  
 
  "I've been meaning to ask you," Asa said. "How do you handle the
Sliders?"
  
 
  Kershaw grinned.
  
 
  "First you try to catch it with a rocket. If you miss you start leaping
for home. All this time you're broadcasting for help, you understand.
When the Slider catches you, you leap up while it buries its jaws in
the mud where you were just standing. You dig your claws in its back
and hang on while it rolls around in the mud. Finally, if the 'copter
comes—and if they don't shoot off your head by mistake—you live to
tell the tale."
  
 
 
  II
  
 
  Asa Graybar kept his normal form on Jordan's Planet just long enough to
learn the discomfort of double gravity. He was told he needed another
physical examination and was taken right in to a doctor. His heart was
pounding to keep his blood circulating on this massive world, but the
doctor had apparently learned to make allowances.
  
 
  "Swallow this," said the doctor after making a series of tests.
  
 
  Asa swallowed the capsule. Two minutes later he felt himself beginning
to lose consciousness.
  
 
  "This is it!" he thought in panic.
  
 
  He felt someone ease him back down onto a wheeled stretcher. Before
consciousness faded completely he realized that no one got a chance
to back out of becoming a changeling, that he was on his way to the
conversion tank right now.
  
 
  When he finally awoke he felt well rested and very comfortable. But for
a long time he was afraid to open his eyes.
  
 
  "Come on, Graybar," said a deep, booming voice. "Let's test our wings."
  
 
  It was not Kershaw's voice, but it had to be Kershaw. Asa opened his
eyes.
  
 
  Everyone had seen pictures of muck men. It was different having one
stand beside you. Kershaw looked much like an enormous frog except that
his head was still mostly human. He was sitting on webbed feet, his
lower legs bent double under huge thighs, and his trunk tilted forward
so that his arms dangled to the ground. The arms were as thick around
as an ordinary man's legs. The hands had become efficient scoops, with
broad fingers webbed to the first joint and tipped with spade-like
claws. The skin was still pinkish but had become scaly. Not a thread of
hair showed anywhere on the body, not even on the head.
  
 
  This, Asa realized, was what he looked like himself.
  
 
  It would have been more bearable if the head had not retained strong
traces of humanity. The nostrils flared wide and the jaws hardly
emerged from the neck, but the ears were human ears and the eyes, under
those horny ridges, were human eyes. Asa felt sure that the eyes could
still weep.
  
 
  He started to walk forward and tipped over on his side. Kershaw laughed.
  
 
  "Come to daddy, babykins," Kershaw said, holding out his hands. "Only
try hopping this time. And take it easy."
  
 
  Asa pushed himself upright with one arm and tried a small hop. Nerve
and muscle coordination was perfect. He found himself leaping as high
as Kershaw's head.
  
 
  "That's the way," Kershaw said approvingly. "Now get this on and we'll
go outside."
  
 
  Asa snapped on a belt and breech cloth combination that had flaps of
fabric dangling from the belt in front and behind. He followed as
Kershaw pushed open a sliding door to lead the way out of the room
where they had been left to revive from conversion.
  
