An interview with a doctor from the Conversion Corps was required
for all persons who elected changeling status. The law stated that
potential changelings must be fully informed of the rights and hazards
of altered shape before they signed a release. The requirement held
whether or not the individual, like Asa, was already experienced.
  
 
  By the time humanity traveled to the stars, medical biology had made
it possible to regenerate damaged or deficient organs of the body.
Regeneration was limited only by advanced age. Sometime after a man's
two hundredth year his body lost the ability to be coaxed into growing
new cells. A fifth set of teeth was usually one's last. As long as
senescence could be staved off, however, any man could have bulging
biceps and a pencil waist, if he could pay for the treatment.
  
 
  Until the medical associations declared such treatments unethical there
was even a short fad of deliberate deformities, with horns at the
temples particularly popular.
  
 
  From regeneration it was a short step to specialized regrowth. The
techniques were perfected to adapt humans to the dozen barely habitable
worlds man had discovered. Even on Mars, the only planet outside Earth
in the solar system where the human anatomy was remotely suitable, a
man could work more efficiently with redesigned lungs and temperature
controls than he could inside a pressure suit. On more bizarre planets
a few light-years away the advantages of changeling bodies were
greater.
  
 
  Unfortunately for planetary development companies, hardly anyone
wanted to become a changeling. High pay lured few. So a law was passed
permitting a convicted criminal to earn his freedom by putting in one
year as a changeling for every five years he would otherwise have had
to spend in rehabilitation.
  
 
  "What types of changelings do you have orders for right now, doctor?"
Asa asked the man assigned to his case. It would look suspicious if he
asked for Jordan's Planet without some preliminary questions.
  
 
  "Four," answered the doctor.
  
 
  "Squiffs for New Arcady. Adapted for climbing the skycraper trees and
with the arm structure modified into pseudo-wings or gliding. Then we
need spiderinos for Von Neumann Two. If you want the nearest thing we
have to Earth, there's Caesar's Moon, where we'd just have to double
your tolerance for carbon monoxide and make you a bigger and better
gorilla than the natives. Last, of course, there's always a need for
muck men on Jordan's Planet."
  
 
  The doctor shrugged, as if naturally no one could be expected to
choose Jordan's Planet. Asa frowned in apparent consideration of the
alternatives.
  
 
  "What's the pay range?" he asked.
  
 
  "Ten dollars a day on Caesar's Moon. Fifteen on New Arcady or Von
Neumann Two. Twenty-five on Jordan's."
  
 
  Asa raised his eyebrows.
  
 
  "Why such a difference? Everyone knows about muck men living in the
mud while they hunt Slider eggs. But don't your conversions make the
changeling comfortable in his new environment?"
  
 
  "Sure they do," said the doctor. "We can make you think mud feels
better than chinchilla fur and we can have you jumping like a
grasshopper despite the double gravity. But we can't make you like the
sight of yourself. And we can't guarantee that a Slider won't kill you."
  
 
  "Still," Asa mused aloud, "it would mean a nice bankroll waiting at the
end of the year."
  
 
  He leaned forward to fill in the necessary form.
  
