A round trip for the helicopter should have taken no more than twenty
minutes, allowing time for Kershaw to be taken out at the settlement.
  
 
  After an hour passed Asa began to worry. He was sure Dorr would return
for the egg. Finally he realized that Dorr could locate the egg
approximately by the body of the dead Slider. Dorr could return for the
egg any time with some other muck man to dig for it.
  
 
  Asa pulled down the mouthpiece of his radio.
  
 
  "This is Graybar, calling the helicopter," he said. "When are you
coming?"
  
 
  There was no answer except the hum of carrier wave.
  
 
  If he tried to carry the egg back, Asa knew, Sliders would attack him
all along the way. A man had no chance of getting five miles with an
egg by himself. He could leave the egg here, of course. Even so he
would be lucky if he got back, following a hazy compass course from
which he and Kershaw had certainly deviated on their outward trip.
There were no landmarks in this wilderness of bog to help him find his
way. The workers were supposed to home in on radio signals, if they
lost their bearings, but Dorr would deny him that help.
  
 
  What was the night like on Jordan's Planet? Maybe Sliders slept at
night. If he could stay awake, and if he didn't faint from hunger in
this strange new body, and if the Sliders left him alone....
  
 
  A whirring noise made Asa jump in alarm.
  
 
  Then he smiled in relief, for it was the helicopter, the blessed
helicopter, coming in over the swamp. But what if it was Dorr, coming
back alone to dispose of him without any witnesses? Asa leaped for the
carcass of the dead Slider and took shelter behind it.
  
 
  No machine-gun blast of rockets came from the helicopter. The big
machine swooped low dizzily, tilted back in an inexpert attempt to
hover, thumped down upon the mud and slid forward. As Asa jumped aside,
the landing skids caught against the Slider's body and the helicopter
flipped forward on its nose, one of the rotor blades plunging deep into
the mud.
  
 
  Asa leaped forward in consternation. Not only was his chance of safe
passage back to the settlement wrecked, but now he would have the
extra burden of taking care of the pilot. When he reached the nose
of the helicopter he saw that the pilot, untangling herself from the
controls to get up, was Harriet Hazeltyne.
  
 
 
  IV
  
 
  "Are you hurt?" Asa asked her. She reached for his shoulder to steady
herself as she climbed out of the machine.
  
 
  "I guess not," she said. "But taking a fall in this gravity is no fun.
From the way my face feels I ought to be getting a black eye pretty
soon."
  
 
  "What happened?"
  
 
  "I made a fool of myself." She made a face back in the direction of
the settlement. "Dorr wasn't going to come after you. He said anyone
who talked back to him should try arguing with the Sliders."
  
 
  She looked up at the machine-gun on the helicopter.
  
 
  "They feed at night, you know. And they eat their own kind," she said.
"The Slider you killed would draw them like ants to jam."
  
 
  Asa glanced around quickly to make sure no Sliders had already come. He
eyed the helicopter with distaste at the thought of what a flimsy fort
it would make.
  
 
  "Anyway," Harriet said, "I told him he couldn't just leave you here
and we started arguing. I lost my temper. He thought he had brought me
to Jordan's Planet on a fancy tour. I told him the real reason I was
here was to check up for my father on the way he was running things and
there seemed to be a lot wrong. So he told me very politely I could run
things to suit myself and he walked off."
  
 
  She shrugged, as if to indicate that she had made a mess of things.
  
 
  "And you took the helicopter by yourself," Asa said, as if he could
hardly believe it yet.
  
 
  "Oh, back on Earth I can make a helicopter do stunts. But I wasn't used
to this gravity. I don't suppose you could make this machine stand up
straight?"
  
 
  Asa tugged at the body of the Slider until he got it off the skids of
the plane. He pulled with all his strength at the rotor blade sunk in
the mud, but the weight of the helicopter was upon it and the mud held
it with a suction of its own. After a few minutes he had to give up.
  
 
  "We fight off the Sliders, then," she said, as matter of factly as if
that problem was settled. "If it's any comfort, I know how to handle
the machine-gun."
  
 
  "Nope. In this drizzle, at night, the Sliders would be on us before
we could see them. We've got to try to get back." He stood in thought
while she stared at him patiently. "What happened to the other muck men
who went out today?" he asked.
  
 
  "They were called in when the 'copter came out the first time. Some of
them may not have got back yet."
  
