 
  MUCK MAN
  
 
  BY FREMONT DODGE
  
 
  The work wasn't hard, but there were some sacrifices.
   
  You had to give up hope and freedom—and being human!
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Worlds of If Science Fiction, November 1963.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  I
  
 
  The girl with the Slider egg glittering in her hair watched the
bailiff lead Asa Graybar out of the courtroom. He recognized her as
old Hazeltyne's daughter Harriet, no doubt come to see justice done.
She didn't have the hothouse-flower look Asa would have expected in a
girl whose father owned the most valuable of the planetary franchises.
She was not afraid to meet his eye, the eye of a judicially certified
criminal. There was, perhaps, a crease of puzzlement in her brow, as if
she had thought crimes were committed by shriveled, rat-faced types,
and not by young biological engineers who still affected crewcuts.
  
 
  Tom Dorr, Hazeltyne's general manager, was her escort. Asa felt
certain, without proof, that Dorr was the man who had framed him for
the charge of grand theft by secreting a fresh Slider egg in his
laboratory. The older man stared at Asa coldly as he was led out of
the courtroom and down the corridor back to jail.
  
 
  Jumpy, Asa's cellmate, took one look at his face as he was put back
behind bars.
  
 
  "Guilty," Jumpy said.
  
 
  Asa glared at him.
  
 
  "I know, I know," Jumpy said hastily. "You were framed. But what's the
rap?"
  
 
  "Five or one."
  
 
  "Take the five," Jumpy advised. "Learn basket-weaving in a nice
air-conditioned rehab clinic. A year on a changeling deal will seem a
lot longer, even if you're lucky enough to live through it."
  
 
  Asa took four steps to the far wall of the cell, stood there briefly
with his head bent and turned to face Jumpy.
  
 
  "Nope," Asa said softly. "I'm going into a conversion tank. I'm going
to be a muck man, Jumpy. I'm going out to Jordan's Planet and hunt
Slider eggs."
  
 
  "Smuggling? It won't work."
  
 
  Asa didn't answer. The Hazeltyne company had gone after him because
he had been working on a method of keeping Slider eggs alive. The
Hazeltyne company would be happy to see him mark time for five years
of so-called social reorientation. But if he could get out to Jordan's
Planet, with his physiology adapted to the environment of that wretched
world, he could study the eggs under conditions no laboratory could
duplicate. He might even be able to cause trouble for Hazeltyne.
  
 
  His only problem would be staying alive for a year.
  
