Asa took a deep breath and looked around.
  
 
  "Kershaw!" he called. "Where are you?"
  
 
  "Over here." Kershaw stood briefly above the weeds and fell back again.
Asa leaped over to him.
  
 
  "Thanks," Kershaw said. "Muck men stick together. You'll make a good
one. I wouldn't have had a chance. My leg's busted."
  
 
  "The helicopter ought to be here pretty soon," Asa said. He looked over
at the dead Slider and shook his head. "Tell me, what are the odds on
getting killed doing this?"
  
 
  "Last time I was here there was about one mucker killed for every six
eggs brought out. Of course you're not supposed to stand there admiring
the eggs like I did while a Slider comes up on you."
  
 
  Asa hopped over to the egg, which was still full of a dancing radiance
where it rested on the mud. He scooped a hole in the muck and buried
the egg.
  
 
  "Just in case there are any more Sliders around," he explained.
  
 
  "Makes no difference," said Kershaw, pointing upward. "Here comes the
'copter, late as usual."
  
 
  The big machine circled them, hovered to inspect the dead Slider, and
settled down on broad skids. Through the transparent nose Asa could see
Tom Dorr and Harriet Hazeltyne. The company manager swung the door open
and leaned out.
  
 
  "I see you took care of the Slider," he said. "Hand over the egg."
  
 
  "Kershaw has a broken leg," Asa said. "I'll help him in and then I'll
get the egg."
  
 
  While Kershaw grabbed the door frame to help pull himself into the
helicopter, Asa got under his companion's belly and lifted him by the
waist. He hadn't realized before just how strong his new body was.
Kershaw, as a muck man, would have weighed close to three hundred
pounds on Earth, close to six hundred here.
  
 
  Dorr made no move to help, but the girl reached under Kershaw's
shoulder and strained to get him in. Once he was inside, Asa saw, the
cabin was crowded.
  
 
  "Are you going to have room for me too?" he asked.
  
 
  "Not this trip," Dorr answered. "Now give me the egg."
  
 
  Asa didn't hesitate. "The egg stays with me," he said softly.
  
 
  "You do what I tell you, mucker," said Dorr.
  
 
  "Nope. I want to make sure you come back." Asa turned his head to
Harriet. "You see, Miss Hazeltyne, I don't trust your friend. You might
ask him to tell you about it."
  
 
  Dorr stared at him with narrowed eyes. Suddenly he smiled in a way that
worried Asa.
  
 
  "Whatever you say, Graybar," Dorr said. He turned to the controls. In
another minute the helicopter was in the sky.
  
