Sauer and Flock were what are called prison wolves. They were
laborers—"wipes," for short—or, at any rate, they had been once.
They had spent so much time in prisons that it was sometimes hard even
for them to remember what they really were, outside. Sauer was a big,
grinning redhead with eyes like a water moccasin. Flock was a lithe
five-footer with the build of a water moccasin—and the sad, stupid
eyes of a calf.
  
 
  Sauer stopped yelling for a moment. "Hey, Flock!"
  
 
  "What do you want, Sauer?" called Flock from his own cell.
  
 
  "We got a lady with us! Maybe we ought to cut out this yelling so
as not to disturb the lady!" He screeched with howling, maniacal
laughter. "Anyway, if we don't cut this out, they'll get us in trouble,
Flock!"
  
 
  "Oh, you think so?" shrieked Flock. "Jeez, I wish you hadn't said that,
Sauer. You got me scared! I'm so scared, I'm gonna have to yell!"
  
 
  The howling started all over again.
  
 
  The inside guard finished putting the new prisoners away and turned off
the tangler field once more. He licked his lips. "Say, you want to take
a turn in here for a while?"
  
 
  "Uh-uh." The outside guard shook his head.
  
 
  "You're yellow," the inside guard said moodily. "Ah, I don't know why I
don't quit this lousy job. Hey, you! Pipe down or I'll come in and beat
your head off!"
  
 
  "Ee-ee-ee!" screamed Sauer in a shrill falsetto. "I'm scared!" Then he
grinned at the guard, all but his water-moccasin eyes. "Don't you know
you can't hurt a wipe by hitting him on the head, Boss?"
  
 
  "Shut
   
   up
   
  !" yelled the inside guard.
  
 
  Sue-Ann Bradley's weeping now was genuine. She simply could not help
it. The crazy yowling of the hard-timers, Sauer and Flock, was getting
under her skin. They weren't even—even
   
   human
   
  , she told herself
miserably, trying to weep silently so as not to give the guards the
satisfaction of hearing her—they were animals!
  
 
  Resentment and anger, she could understand. She told herself doggedly
that resentment and anger were natural and right. They were perfectly
normal expressions of the freedom-loving citizen's rebellion against
the vile and stifling system of Categoried Classes. It was
   
   good
   
  that
Sauer and Flock still had enough spirit to struggle against the vicious
system—
  
 
  But did they have to scream so?
  
 
  The senseless yelling was driving her crazy. She abandoned herself to
weeping and she didn't even care who heard her any more. Senseless!
  
 
  It never occurred to Sue-Ann Bradley that it might not be senseless,
because noise hides noise. But then she hadn't been a prisoner very
long.
  
 
 
  III
  
 
  "I smell trouble," said O'Leary to the warden.
  
 
  "Trouble? Trouble?" Warden Schluckebier clutched his throat and his
little round eyes looked terrified—as perhaps they should have. Warden
Godfrey Schluckebier was the almighty Caesar of ten thousand inmates in
the Jug, but privately he was a fussy old man trying to hold onto the
last decent job he would have in his life.
  
 
  "Trouble?
   
   What
   
  trouble?"
  
 
  O'Leary shrugged. "Different things. You know Lafon, from Block A? This
afternoon, he was playing ball with the laundry orderlies in the yard."
  
 
  The warden, faintly relieved, faintly annoyed, scolded: "O'Leary, what
did you want to worry me for? There's nothing wrong with playing ball
in the yard. That's what recreation periods are for."
  
 
  "You don't see what I mean, Warden. Lafon was a professional on the
outside—an architect. Those laundry cons were laborers. Pros and wipes
don't mix; it isn't natural. And there are other things."
  
 
  O'Leary hesitated, frowning. How could you explain to the warden that
it didn't
   
   smell
   
  right?
  
 
  "For instance—Well, there's Aunt Mathias in the women's block. She's
a pretty good old girl—that's why she's the block orderly. She's a
lifer, she's got no place to go, she gets along with the other women.
But today she put a woman named Bradley on report. Why? Because she
told Bradley to mop up in wipe talk and Bradley didn't understand. Now
Mathias wouldn't—"
  
 
  The warden raised his hand. "Please, O'Leary, don't bother me about
that kind of stuff." He sighed heavily and rubbed his eyes. He poured
himself a cup of steaming black coffee from a brewpot, reached in a
desk drawer for something, hesitated, glanced at O'Leary, then dropped
a pale blue tablet into the cup. He drank it down eagerly, ignoring the
scalding heat.
  
 
  He leaned back, looking suddenly happier and much more assured.
  
 
  "O'Leary, you're a guard captain, right? And I'm your warden. You have
your job, keeping the inmates in line, and I have mine. Now your job is
just as important as my job," he said piously. "
   
   Everybody's
   
  job is
just as important as everybody else's, right? But we have to stick to
our own jobs. We don't want to try to
   
   pass
   
  ."
  
 
  O'Leary snapped erect, abruptly angry. Pass! What the devil way was
that for the warden to talk to him?
  
 
  "Excuse the expression, O'Leary," the warden said anxiously. "I mean,
after all, 'Specialization is the goal of civilization,' right?" He was
a great man for platitudes, was Warden Schluckebier. "
   
   You
   
  know you
don't want to worry about
   
   my
   
  end of running the prison. And
   
   I
   
  don't
want to worry about
   
   yours
   
  . You see?" And he folded his hands and
smiled like a civil-service Buddha.
  
