O'Leary choked back his temper. "Warden, I'm telling you that there's
trouble coming up. I smell the signs."
  
 
  "Handle it, then!" snapped the warden, irritated at last.
  
 
  "But suppose it's too big to handle. Suppose—"
  
 
  "It isn't," the warden said positively. "Don't borrow trouble with
all your supposing, O'Leary." He sipped the remains of his coffee,
made a wry face, poured a fresh cup and, with an elaborate show of not
noticing what he was doing, dropped three of the pale blue tablets into
it this time.
  
 
  He sat beaming into space, waiting for the jolt to take effect.
  
 
  "Well, then," he said at last. "You just remember what I've told you
tonight, O'Leary, and we'll get along fine. 'Specialization is the—'
Oh, curse the thing."
  
 
  His phone was ringing. The warden picked it up irritably.
  
 
  That was the trouble with those pale blue tablets, thought O'Leary;
they gave you a lift, but they put you on edge.
  
 
  "Hello," barked the warden, not even glancing at the viewscreen. "What
the devil do you want? Don't you know I'm—What? You did
   
   what
   
  ?
You're going to WHAT?"
  
 
  He looked at the viewscreen at last with a look of pure horror.
Whatever he saw on it, it did not reassure him. His eyes opened like
clamshells in a steamer.
  
 
  "O'Leary," he said faintly, "my mistake."
  
 
  And he hung up—more or less by accident; the handset dropped from his
fingers.
  
 
  The person on the other end of the phone was calling from Cell Block O.
  
 
  Five minutes before, he hadn't been anywhere near the phone and it
didn't look as if his chances of ever getting near it were very good.
Because five minutes before, he was in his cell, with the rest of the
hard-timers of the Greensleeves.
  
 
  His name was Flock.
  
 
  He was still yelling. Sue-Ann Bradley, in the cell across from him,
thought that maybe, after all, the man was really in pain. Maybe the
crazy screams were screams of agony, because certainly his face was the
face of an agonized man.
  
 
  The outside guard bellowed: "Okay, okay. Take ten!"
  
 
  Sue-Ann froze, waiting to see what would happen. What actually did
happen was that the guard reached up and closed the switch that
actuated the tangler fields on the floors of the cells. The prison
rules were humanitarian, even for the dregs that inhabited the
Greensleeves. Ten minutes out of every two hours, even the worst case
had to be allowed to take his hands out of the restraining garment.
  
 
  "Rest period" it was called—in the rule book. The inmates had a less
lovely term for it.
  
