Forty miles to the south, Hap Arnold Field was a blaze of light. The
airmen tumbled out of their quarters and dayrooms at the screech of
the alert siren, and behind them their wives and children stretched
and yawned and worried. An alert! The older kids fussed and complained
and their mothers shut them up. No, there wasn't any alert scheduled
for tonight; no, they didn't know where Daddy was going; no, the kids
couldn't get up yet—it was the middle of the night.
  
 
  And as soon as they had the kids back in bed, most of the mothers
struggled into their own airwac uniforms and headed for the briefing
area to hear.
  
 
  They caught the words from a distance—not quite correctly. "Riot!"
gasped an aircraftswoman first-class, mother of three. "The wipes! I
   
   told
   
  Charlie they'd get out of hand and—Alys, we aren't safe. You
know how they are about GI women! I'm going right home and get a club
and stand right by the door and—"
  
 
  "Club!" snapped Alys, radarscope-sergeant, with two children
querulously awake in her nursery at home. "What in God's name is the
use of a club? You can't hurt a wipe by hitting him on the head. You'd
better come along to Supply with me and draw a gun—you'll need it
before this night is over."
  
 
  But the airmen themselves heard the briefing loud and clear over the
scramble-call speakers, and they knew it was not merely a matter of
trouble in the wipe quarters. The Jug! The governor himself had called
them out; they were to fly interdicting missions at such-and-such
levels on such-and-such flight circuits around the prison.
  
 
  The rockets took off on fountains of fire; and the jets took off with a
whistling roar; and last of all, the helicopters took off ... and they
were the ones who might actually accomplish something. They took up
their picket posts on the prison perimeter, a pilot and two bombardiers
in each 'copter, stone-faced, staring grimly alert at the prison below.
  
 
  They were ready for the breakout.
  
 
  But there wasn't any breakout.
  
 
  The rockets went home for fuel. The jets went home for fuel. The
helicopters hung on—still ready, still waiting.
  
 
  The rockets came back and roared harmlessly about, and went away again.
They stayed away. The helicopter men never faltered and never relaxed.
The prison below them was washed with light—from the guard posts on
the walls, from the cell blocks themselves, from the mobile lights of
the guard squadrons surrounding the walls.
  
 
  North of the prison, on the long, flat, damp developments of reclaimed
land, the matchbox row houses of the clerical neighborhoods showed
lights in every window as the figgers stood ready to repel invasion
from their undesired neighbors to the east, the wipes. In the crowded
tenements of the laborers' quarters, the wipes shouted from window to
window; and there were crowds in the bright streets.
  
 
  "The whole bloody thing's going to blow up!" a helicopter bombardier
yelled bitterly to his pilot, above the flutter and roar of the
whirling blades. "Look at the mobs in Greaserville! The first breakout
from the Jug's going to start a fight like you never saw and we'll be
right in the middle of it!"
  
 
  He was partly right. He would be right in the middle of it—for every
man, woman and child in the city-state would be right in the middle of
it. There was no place anywhere that would be spared.
   
   No mixing.
   
  That
was the prescription that kept the city-state alive. There's no harm in
a family fight—and aren't all mechanics a family, aren't all laborers
a clan, aren't all clerks and office workers related by closer ties
than blood or skin?
  
 
  But the declassed cons of the Jug were the dregs of every class; and
once they spread, the neat compartmentation of society was pierced. The
breakout would mean riot on a bigger scale than any prison had ever
known.
  
 
  But he was also partly wrong. Because the breakout wasn't seeming to
come.
  
