 
  My Lady Greensleeves
  
 
  By FREDERIK POHL
  
 
  Illustrated by GAUGHAN
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Galaxy Science Fiction February 1957.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
 
   This guard smelled trouble and it could be
    
   counted on to come—for a nose for trouble
    
   was one of the many talents bred here!
   
 
 
 
  I
  
 
  His name was Liam O'Leary and there was something stinking in his
nostrils. It was the smell of trouble. He hadn't found what the trouble
was yet, but he would. That was his business. He was a captain of
guards in Estates-General Correctional Institution—better known to
its inmates as the Jug—and if he hadn't been able to detect the scent
of trouble brewing a cell-block away, he would never have survived to
reach his captaincy.
  
 
  And her name, he saw, was Sue-Ann Bradley, Detainee No. WFA-656R.
  
 
  He frowned at the rap sheet, trying to figure out what got a girl like
her into a place like this. And, what was more important, why she
couldn't adjust herself to it, now that she was in.
  
 
  He demanded: "Why wouldn't you mop out your cell?"
  
 
  The girl lifted her head angrily and took a step forward. The block
guard, Sodaro, growled warningly: "Watch it, auntie!"
  
 
  O'Leary shook his head. "Let her talk, Sodaro." It said in the
   
   Civil
Service Guide to Prison Administration
   
  : "Detainees will be permitted
to speak in their own behalf in disciplinary proceedings." And O'Leary
was a man who lived by the book.
  
 
  She burst out: "I never got a chance! That old witch Mathias never told
me I was supposed to mop up. She banged on the door and said, 'Slush
up, sister!' And then, ten minutes later, she called the guards and
told them I refused to mop."
  
 
  The block guard guffawed. "Wipe talk—that's what she was telling you
to do. Cap'n, you know what's funny about this? This Bradley is—"
  
 
  "Shut up, Sodaro."
  
