O'Leary noted, with the part of his mind that always noted those
things, that the orderly had been leaning on his broom until he'd
noticed the captain coming by. Of course, there wasn't much to
sweep—the spray machines and sweeperdozers had been over the
cobblestones of the yard twice already that day. But it was an inmate's
job to keep busy. And it was a guard captain's job to notice when they
didn't.
  
 
  There wasn't anything wrong with that job, he told himself. It was a
perfectly good civil-service position—better than post-office clerk,
not as good as Congressman, but a job you could be proud to hold. He
   
   was
   
  proud of it. It was
   
   right
   
  that he should be proud of it. He was
civil-service born and bred, and naturally he was proud and content to
do a good, clean civil-service job.
  
 
  If he had happened to be born a fig—a
   
   clerk
   
  , he corrected
himself—if he had happened to be born a clerk, why, he would have been
proud of that, too. There wasn't anything wrong with being a clerk—or
a mechanic or a soldier, or even a laborer, for that matter.
  
 
  Good laborers were the salt of the Earth! They weren't smart, maybe,
but they had a—well, a sort of natural, relaxed joy of living. O'Leary
was a broad-minded man and many times he had thought almost with a
touch of envy how
   
   comfortable
   
  it must be to be a wipe—a
   
   laborer
   
  .
No responsibilities. No worries. Just an easy, slow routine of work and
loaf, work and loaf.
  
 
  Of course, he wouldn't
   
   really
   
  want that kind of life, because he was
Civil Service and not the kind to try to cross over class barriers that
weren't
   
   meant
   
  to be—
  
 
  "Evening, Cap'n."
  
 
  He nodded to the mechanic inmate who was, theoretically, in charge of
maintaining the prison's car pool, just inside the gate.
  
 
  "Evening, Conan," he said.
  
 
  Conan, now—he was a big buck greaser and he would be there for the
next hour, languidly poking a piece of fluff out of the air filter on
the prison jeep. Lazy, sure. Undependable, certainly. But he kept the
cars going—and, O'Leary thought approvingly, when his sentence was up
in another year or so, he would go back to his life with his status
restored, a mechanic on the outside as he had been inside, and he
certainly would never risk coming back to the Jug by trying to pass as
Civil Service or anything else. He knew his place.
  
 
  So why didn't this girl, this Sue-Ann Bradley, know hers?
  
 
 
  II
  
 
  Every prison has its Greensleeves—sometimes they are called by
different names. Old Marquette called it "the canary;" Louisiana State
called it "the red hats;" elsewhere it was called "the hole," "the
snake pit," "the Klondike." When you're in it, you don't much care what
it is called; it is a place for punishment.
  
 
  And punishment is what you get.
  
 
  Block O in Estates-General Correctional Institution was the
disciplinary block, and because of the green straitjackets its
inhabitants wore, it was called the Greensleeves. It was a community of
its own, an enclave within the larger city-state that was the Jug. And
like any other community, it had its leading citizens ... two of them.
Their names were Sauer and Flock.
  
 
  Sue-Ann Bradley heard them before she reached the Greensleeves. She
was in a detachment of three unfortunates like herself, convoyed by an
irritable guard, climbing the steel steps toward Block O from the floor
below, when she heard the yelling.
  
 
  "Owoo-o-o," screamed Sauer from one end of the cell block and
"Yow-w-w!" shrieked Flock at the other.
  
 
  The inside deck guard of Block O looked nervously at the outside deck
guard. The outside guard looked impassively back—after all, he was on
the outside.
  
 
  The inside guard muttered: "Wipe rats! They're getting on my nerves."
  
 
  The outside guard shrugged.
  
 
  "Detail,
   
   halt
   
  !" The two guards turned to see what was coming in as
the three new candidates for the Greensleeves slumped to a stop at the
head of the stairs. "Here they are," Sodaro told them. "Take good care
of 'em, will you? Especially the lady—she's going to like it here,
because there's plenty of wipes and greasers and figgers to keep her
company." He laughed coarsely and abandoned his charges to the Block O
guards.
  
 
  The outside guard said sourly: "A woman, for God's sake. Now O'Leary
knows I hate it when there's a woman in here. It gets the others all
riled up."
  
 
  "Let them in," the inside guard told him. "The others are riled up
already."
  
 
  Sue-Ann Bradley looked carefully at the floor and paid them no
attention. The outside guard pulled the switch that turned on the
tanglefoot electronic fields that swamped the floor of the block
corridor and of each individual cell. While the fields were on, you
could ignore the prisoners—they simply could not move fast enough,
against the electronic drag of the field, to do any harm. But it was a
rule that, even in Block O, you didn't leave the tangler fields on all
the time—only when the cell doors had to be opened or a prisoner's
restraining garment removed.
  
 
  Sue-Ann walked bravely forward through the opened gate—and fell flat
on her face. It was her first experience of a tanglefoot field. It was
like walking through molasses.
  
 
  The guard guffawed and lifted her up by one shoulder. "Take it easy,
auntie. Come on, get in your cell." He steered her in the right
direction and pointed to a greensleeved straitjacket on the cell cot.
"Put that on. Being as you're a lady, we won't tie it up, but the rules
say you got to wear it and the rules—Hey. She's crying!" He shook his
head, marveling. It was the first time he had ever seen a prisoner cry
in the Greensleeves.
  
 
  However, he was wrong. Sue-Ann's shoulders were shaking, but not from
tears. Sue-Ann Bradley had got a good look at Sauer and at Flock as she
passed them by and she was fighting off an almost uncontrollable urge
to retch.
  
