At the guard's yell, the inmates jumped to their feet.
  
 
  Bradley was a little slow getting off the edge of the steel-slat
bed—nobody had warned her that the eddy currents in the tangler fields
had a way of making metal smoke-hot. She gasped but didn't cry out.
Score one more painful lesson in her new language course. She rubbed
the backs of her thighs gingerly—and slowly, slowly, for the eddy
currents did not permit you to move fast. It was like pushing against
rubber; the faster you tried to move, the greater the resistance.
  
 
  The guard peered genially into her cell. "You're okay, auntie." She
proudly ignored him as he slogged deliberately away on his rounds.
He didn't have to untie her and practically stand over her while
she attended to various personal matters, as he did with the male
prisoners. It was not much to be grateful for, but Sue-Ann Bradley was
grateful. At least she didn't have to live
   
   quite
   
  like a fig—like an
underprivileged clerk, she told herself, conscience-stricken.
  
 
  Across the hall, the guard was saying irritably: "What the hell's
the matter with you?" He opened the door of the cell with an
asbestos-handled key held in a canvas glove.
  
 
  Flock was in that cell and he was doubled over.
  
 
  The guard looked at him doubtfully. It could be a trick, maybe.
Couldn't it? But he could see Flock's face and the agony in it was real
enough. And Flock was gasping, through real tears: "Cramps. I—I—"
  
 
  "Ah, you wipes always got a pain in the gut." The guard lumbered around
Flock to the draw-strings at the back of the jacket. Funny smell in
here, he told himself—not for the first time. And imagine, some people
didn't believe that wipes had a smell of their own! But this time, he
realized cloudily, it was a rather unusual smell. Something burning.
Almost like meat scorching.
  
 
  It wasn't pleasant. He finished untying Flock and turned away; let the
stinking wipe take care of his own troubles. He only had ten minutes to
get all the way around Block O and the inmates complained like crazy if
he didn't make sure they all got the most possible free time. He was
pretty good at snowshoeing through the tangler field. He was a little
vain about it, even; at times he had been known to boast of his ability
to make the rounds in two minutes, every time.
  
 
  Every time but this.
  
 
  For Flock moaned behind him, oddly close.
  
 
  The guard turned, but not quickly enough. There was
Flock—astonishingly, he was half out of his jacket; his arms hadn't
been in the sleeves at all! And in one of the hands, incredibly, there
was something that glinted and smoked.
  
 
  "All right," croaked Flock, tears trickling out of eyes nearly shut
with pain.
  
 
  But it wasn't the tears that held the guard; it was the shining,
smoking thing, now poised at his throat. A shiv! It looked as though
it had been made out of a bed-spring, ripped loose from its frame God
knows how, hidden inside the greensleeved jacket God knows how—filed,
filed to sharpness over endless hours.
  
 
  No wonder Flock moaned—the eddy currents in the shiv were slowly
cooking his hand; and the blister against his abdomen, where the shiv
had been hidden during other rest periods, felt like raw acid.
  
 
 
 
  "All right," whispered Flock, "just walk out the door and you won't get
hurt. Unless the other screw makes trouble, you won't get hurt, so tell
him not to, you hear?"
  
 
  He was nearly fainting with the pain.
  
 
  But he hadn't let go.
  
 
  He didn't let go. And he didn't stop.
  
 
 
  IV
  
 
  It was Flock on the phone to the warden—Flock with his eyes still
streaming tears, Flock with Sauer standing right behind him, menacing
the two bound deck guards.
  
 
  Sauer shoved Flock out of the way. "Hey, Warden!" he said, and the
voice was a cheerful bray, though the serpent eyes were cold and
hating. "Warden, you got to get a medic in here. My boy Flock, he hurt
himself real bad and he needs a doctor." He gestured playfully at the
guards with the shiv. "I tell you, Warden. I got this knife and I got
your guards here. Enough said? So get a medic in here quick, you hear?"
  
 
  And he snapped the connection.
  
 
  O'Leary said: "Warden, I told you I smelled trouble!"
  
 
  The warden lifted his head, glared, started feebly to speak, hesitated,
and picked up the long-distance phone. He said sadly to the prison
operator: "Get me the governor—fast."
  
 
 
   Riot!
   
 
 
  The word spread out from the prison on seven-league boots.
  
 
  It snatched the city governor out of a friendly game of Seniority
with his manager and their wives—and just when he was holding the
Porkbarrel Joker concealed in the hole.
  
 
  It broke up the Base Championship Scramble Finals at Hap Arnold Field
to the south, as half the contestants had to scramble in earnest to a
Red Alert that was real.
  
 
  It reached to police precinct houses and TV newsrooms and highway
checkpoints, and from there it filtered into the homes and lives of the
nineteen million persons that lived within a few dozen miles of the Jug.
  
 
  Riot. And yet fewer than half a dozen men were involved.
  
 
  A handful of men, and the enormous bulk of the city-state quivered in
every limb and class. In its ten million homes, in its hundreds of
thousands of public places, the city-state's people shook under the
impact of the news from the prison.
  
 
  For the news touched them where their fears lay. Riot! And not merely
a street brawl among roistering wipes, or a bar-room fight of greasers
relaxing from a hard day at the plant. The riot was down among the
corrupt sludge that underlay the state itself. Wipes brawled with wipes
and no one cared; but in the Jug, all classes were cast together.
  
