"Would you like to see a doctor?"
  
 
  Steffens jumped at the familiar words, then realized to what the robot
was referring.
  
 
  "No, not yet," he said, "thank you." He swallowed hard as the robots
continued waiting patiently.
  
 
  "Could you tell me," he said at last, "how old you are? Individually?"
  
 
  "By your reckoning," said his robot, and paused to make the
calculation, "I am forty-four years, seven months, and eighteen days of
age, with ten years and approximately nine months yet to be alive."
  
 
  Steffens tried to understand that.
  
 
  "It would perhaps simplify our conversations," said the robot, "if
you were to refer to me by a name, as is your custom. Using the
first—letters—of my designation, my name would translate as Elb."
  
 
  "Glad to meet you," Steffens mumbled.
  
 
  "You are called 'Stef,'" said the robot obligingly. Then it added,
pointing an arm at the robot near Ball: "The age of—Peb—is seventeen
years, one month and four days. Peb has therefore remaining some
thirty-eight years."
  
 
  Steffens was trying to keep up. Then the life span was obviously about
fifty-five years. But the cities, and the carbon dioxide? The robot,
Elb, had said that the Makers were similar to him, and therefore oxygen
and plant life would have been needed. Unless—
  
 
  He remembered the buildings on Tyban IV.
  
 
  Unless the Makers had not come from this planet at all.
  
 
  His mind helplessly began to revolve. It was Ball who restored order.
  
 
  "Do you build yourselves?" the exec asked.
  
 
  Peb answered quickly, that faint note of happiness again apparent, as
if the robot was glad for the opportunity of answering.
  
 
  "No, we do not build ourselves. We are made by the—" another pause for
a word—"by the
   
   Factory
   
  ."
  
 
  "The Factory?"
  
 
  "Yes. It was built by the Makers. Would you care to see it?"
  
 
  Both of the Earthmen nodded dumbly.
  
 
  "Would you prefer to use your—skiff? It is quite a long way from here."
  
 
  It was indeed a long way, even by skiff. Some of the Aliencon crew went
along with them. And near the edge of the twilight zone, on the other
side of the world, they saw the Factory outlined in the dim light of
dusk. A huge, fantastic block, wrought of gray and cloudy metal, lay in
a valley between two worn mountains. Steffens went down low, circling
in the skiff, stared in awe at the size of the building. Robots moved
outside the thing, little black bugs in the distance—moving around
their birthplace.
  
