"What do you
   
   do
   
  ?" Steffens asked.
  
 
  Elb replied quickly, with characteristic simplicity: "We can do very
little. A certain amount of physical knowledge was imparted to us at
birth by the Makers. We spend the main part of our time expanding that
knowledge wherever possible. We have made some progress in the natural
sciences, and some in mathematics. Our purpose in being, you see, is
to serve the Makers. Any ability we can acquire will make us that much
more fit to serve when the Makers return."
  
 
  "When they return?" It had not occurred to Steffens until now that the
robots expected the Makers to do so.
  
 
  Elb regarded him out of the band of the circling eye. "I see you had
surmised that the Makers were not coming back."
  
 
  If the robot could have laughed, Steffens thought it would have, then.
But it just stood there, motionless, its tone politely emphatic.
  
 
  "It has always been our belief that the Makers would return. Why else
would we have been built?"
  
 
  Steffens thought the robot would go on, but it didn't. The question, to
Elb, was no question at all.
  
 
  Although Steffens knew already what the robot could not possibly have
known—that the Makers were gone and would never come back—he was a
long time understanding. What he did was push this speculation into the
back of his mind, to keep it from Elb. He had no desire to destroy a
faith.
  
 
  But it created a problem in him. He had begun to picture for Elb the
structure of human society, and the robot—a machine which did not eat
or sleep—listened gravely and tried to understand. One day Steffens
mentioned God.
  
 
  "God?" the robot repeated without comprehension. "What is God?"
  
 
  Steffens explained briefly, and the robot answered:
  
 
  "It is a matter which has troubled us. We thought at first that you
were the Makers returning—" Steffens remembered the brief lapse, the
seeming disappointment he had sensed—"but then we probed your minds
and found that you were not, that you were another kind of being,
unlike either the Makers or ourselves. You were not even—" Elb caught
himself—"you did not happen to be telepaths. Therefore we troubled
over who made you. We did detect the word 'Maker' in your theology,
but it seemed to have a peculiar—" Elb paused for a long while—"an
untouchable, intangible meaning which varies among you."
  
 
  Steffens understood. He nodded.
  
 
  The Makers were the robots' God, were all the God they needed. The
Makers had built them, the planet, the universe. If he were to ask them
who made the Makers, it would be like their asking him who made God.
  
 
  It was an ironic parallel, and he smiled to himself.
  
 
  But on that planet, it was the last time he smiled.
  
