Steffens had not realized that there were so many.
  
 
  They had been gathering since his ship was first seen, and now there
were hundreds of them clustered upon the hill. Others were arriving
even as the skiff landed; they glided in over the rocky hills with
fantastic ease and power, so that Steffens felt a momentary anxiety.
Most of the robots were standing with the silent immobility of metal.
Others threaded their way to the fore and came near the skiff, but none
touched it, and a circle was cleared for Steffens when he came out.
  
 
 
 
  One of the near robots came forward alone, moving, as Steffens now
saw, on a number of short, incredibly strong and agile legs. The black
thing paused before him, extended a hand as it had done in the picture.
Steffens took it, he hoped, warmly; felt the power of the metal through
the glove of his suit.
  
 
  "Welcome," the robot said, speaking again to his mind, and now
Steffens detected a peculiar alteration in the robot's tone. It was
less friendly now, less—Steffens could not understand—somehow less
   
   interested
   
  , as if the robot had been—expecting someone else.
  
 
  "Thank you," Steffens said. "We are deeply grateful for your permission
to land."
  
 
  "Our desire," the robot repeated mechanically, "is only to serve."
  
 
  Suddenly, Steffens began to feel alone, surrounded by machines. He
tried to push the thought out of his mind, because he knew that they
   
   should
   
  seem inhuman. But....
  
 
  "Will the others come down?" asked the robot, still mechanically.
  
 
  Steffens felt his embarrassment. The ship lay high in the mist above,
jets throbbing gently.
  
 
  "They must remain with the ship," Steffens said aloud, trusting to the
robot's formality not to ask him why. Although, if they could read his
mind, there was no need to ask.
  
 
  For a long while, neither spoke, long enough for Steffens to grow tense
and uncomfortable. He could not think of a thing to say, the robot was
obviously waiting, and so, in desperation, he signaled the Aliencon men
to come on out of the skiff.
  
 
  They came, wonderingly, and the ring of robots widened. Steffens heard
the one robot speak again. The voice was now much more friendly.
  
 
  "We hope you will forgive us for intruding upon your thought. It is
our—custom—not to communicate unless we are called upon. But when we
observed that you were in ignorance of our real—nature—and were about
to leave our planet, we decided to put aside our custom, so that you
might base your decision upon sufficient data."
  
 
  Steffens replied haltingly that he appreciated their action.
  
 
  "We perceive," the robot went on, "that you are unaware of our complete
access to your mind, and would perhaps be—dismayed—to learn that
we have been gathering information from you. We must—apologize.
Our only purpose was so that we could communicate with you. Only
that information was taken which is necessary for communication
and—understanding. We will enter your minds henceforth only at your
request."
  
 
  Steffens did not react to the news that his mind was being probed
as violently as he might have. Nevertheless it was a shock, and he
retreated into observant silence as the Aliencon men went to work.
  
 
  The robot which seemed to have been doing the speaking was in no way
different from any of the others in the group. Since each of the robots
was immediately aware of all that was being said or thought, Steffens
guessed that they had sent one forward just for appearance's sake,
because they perceived that the Earthmen would feel more at home. The
picture of the extended hand, the characteristic handshake of Earthmen,
had probably been borrowed, too, for the same purpose of making him and
the others feel at ease. The one jarring note was the robot's momentary
lapse, those unexplainable few seconds when the things had seemed
almost disappointed. Steffens gave up wondering about that and began to
examine the first robot in detail.
  
 
  It was not very tall, being at least a foot shorter than the Earthmen.
The most peculiar thing about it, except for the circling eye-band of
the head, was a mass of symbols which were apparently engraved upon the
metal chest. Symbols in row upon row—numbers, perhaps—were upon the
chest, and repeated again below the level of the arms, and continued
in orderly rows across the front of the robot, all the way down to the
base of the trunk. If they were numbers, Steffens thought, then it was
a remarkably complicated system. But he noticed the same pattern on
the nearer robots, all apparently identical. He was forced to conclude
that the symbols were merely decoration and let it go tentatively at
that, although the answer seemed illogical.
  
 
  It wasn't until he was on his way home that Steffens remembered the
symbols again. And only then did he realized what they were.
  
