 
  Orphans of the Void
  
 
  By MICHAEL SHAARA
  
 
  Illustrated by EMSH
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Galaxy Science Fiction June 1952.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
 
   Finding a cause worth dying for is no
    
   great trick—the Universe is full of them. Finding
    
   one worth living for is the genuine problem!
   
 
 
 
  In the region of the Coal Sack Nebula, on the dead fourth planet of
a star called Tyban, Captain Steffens of the Mapping Command stood
counting buildings. Eleven. No, twelve. He wondered if there was any
significance in the number. He had no idea.
  
 
  "What do you make of it?" he asked.
  
 
  Lieutenant Ball, the executive officer of the ship, almost tried to
scratch his head before he remembered that he was wearing a spacesuit.
  
 
  "Looks like a temporary camp," Ball said. "Very few buildings, and all
built out of native materials, the only stuff available. Castaways,
maybe?"
  
 
  Steffens was silent as he walked up onto the rise. The flat weathered
stone jutted out of the sand before him.
  
 
  "No inscriptions," he pointed out.
  
 
  "They would have been worn away. See the wind grooves? Anyway, there's
not another building on the whole damn planet. You wouldn't call it
much of a civilization."
  
 
  "You don't think these are native?"
  
 
  Ball said he didn't. Steffens nodded.
  
 
  Standing there and gazing at the stone, Steffens felt the awe of great
age. He had a hunch, deep and intuitive, that this was old—
   
   too
   
  old.
He reached out a gloved hand, ran it gently over the smooth stone
ridges of the wall. Although the atmosphere was very thin, he noticed
that the buildings had no airlocks.
  
 
  Ball's voice sounded in his helmet: "Want to set up shop, Skipper?"
  
 
  Steffens paused. "All right, if you think it will do any good."
  
 
  "You never can tell. Excavation probably won't be much use. These
things are on a raised rock foundation, swept clean by the wind. And
you can see that the rock itself is native—" he indicated the ledge
beneath their feet—"and was cut out a long while back."
  
 
  "How long?"
  
 
  Ball toed the sand uncomfortably. "I wouldn't like to say off-hand."
  
 
  "Make a rough estimate."
  
 
  Ball looked at the captain, knowing what was in his mind. He smiled
wryly and said: "Five thousand years? Ten thousand? I don't know."
  
 
  Steffens whistled.
  
 
  Ball pointed again at the wall. "Look at the striations. You can tell
from that alone. It would take even a brisk Earth wind
   
   at least
   
  several thousand years to cut that deep, and the wind here has only a
fraction of that force."
  
 
  The two men stood for a long moment in silence. Man had been in
interstellar space for three hundred years and this was the first
uncovered evidence of an advanced, space-crossing, alien race. It was
an historic moment, but neither of them was thinking about history.
  
 
  Man had been in space for only three hundred years. Whatever had built
these had been in space for thousands of years.
  
 
  Which ought to give
   
   them
   
  , thought Steffens uncomfortably, one hell of
a good head-start.
  
