Quickly Steffens called for height. The ship bucked beneath him and
blasted straight up; some of the crew went crashing to the deck.
Steffens remained by the screen, increasing the magnification as the
ship drew away. And he saw another, then two, then a black gliding
group, all matched with bunches of hanging arms.
  
 
  Nothing alive but robots, he thought,
   
   robots
   
  . He adjusted to full
close up as quickly as he could and the picture focused on the screen.
Behind him he heard a crewman grunt in amazement.
  
 
  A band of clear, plasticlike stuff ran round the head—it would be the
eye, a band of eye that saw all ways. On the top of the head was a
single round spot of the plastic, and the rest was black metal, joined,
he realized, with fantastic perfection. The angle of sight was now
almost perpendicular. He could see very little of the branching arms of
the trunk, but what had been on the screen was enough. They were the
most perfect robots he had ever seen.
  
 
  The ship leveled off. Steffens had no idea what to do; the sudden sight
of the moving things had unnerved him. He had already sounded the
alert, flicked out the defense screens. Now he had nothing to do. He
tried to concentrate on what the League Law would have him do.
  
 
  The Law was no help. Contact with planet-bound races was forbidden
under any circumstances. But could a bunch of robots be called a race?
The Law said nothing about robots because Earthmen had none. The
building of imaginative robots was expressly forbidden. But at any
rate, Steffens thought, he had made contact already.
  
 
  While Steffens stood by the screen, completely bewildered for the first
time in his space career, Lieutenant Ball came up, hobbling slightly.
From the bright new bruise on his cheek, Steffens guessed that the
sudden climb had caught him unaware. The exec was pale with surprise.
  
 
  "What were they?" he said blankly. "Lord, they looked like robots!"
  
 
  "They were."
  
 
  Ball stared confoundedly at the screen. The things were now a confusion
of dots in the mist.
  
 
  "Almost humanoid," Steffens said, "but not quite."
  
 
  Ball was slowly absorbing the situation. He turned to gaze inquiringly
at Steffens.
  
 
  "Well, what do we do now?"
  
 
  Steffens shrugged. "They saw us. We could leave now and let them quite
possibly make a ... a legend out of our visit, or we could go down and
see if they tie in with the buildings on Tyban IV."
  
 
  "
   
   Can
   
  we go down?"
  
 
  "Legally? I don't know. If they are robots, yes, since robots cannot
constitute a race. But there's another possibility." He tapped his
fingers on the screen confusedly. "They don't have to be robots at all.
They could be the natives."
  
 
  Ball gulped. "I don't follow you."
  
 
  "They could be the original inhabitants of this planet—the brains of
them, at least, protected in radiation-proof metal. Anyway," he added,
"they're the most perfect mechanicals I've ever seen."
  
 
  Ball shook his head, sat down abruptly. Steffens turned from the
screen, strode nervously across the Main Deck, thinking.
  
 
  The Mapping Command, they called it. Theoretically, all he was supposed
to do was make a closeup examination of unexplored systems, checking
for the presence of life-forms as well as for the possibilities of
human colonization. Make a check and nothing else. But he knew very
clearly that if he returned to Sirius base without investigating this
robot situation, he could very well be court-martialed one way or the
other, either for breaking the Law of Contact or for dereliction of
duty.
  
 
  And there was also the possibility, which abruptly occurred to him,
that the robots might well be prepared to blow his ship to hell and
gone.
  
 
  He stopped in the center of the deck. A whole new line of thought
opened up. If the robots were armed and ready ... could this be an
outpost?
  
 
 
   An outpost!
   
 
 
  He turned and raced for the bridge. If he went in and landed and was
lost, then the League might never know in time. If he went in and
stirred up trouble....
  
 
  The thought in his mind was scattered suddenly, like a mist blown away.
A voice was speaking in his mind, a deep calm voice that seemed to say:
  
 
  "
   
   Greetings. Do not be alarmed. We do not wish you to be alarmed. Our
desire is only to serve....
   
  "
  
