The Earthmen remained for several weeks. During that time, Steffens was
usually with Elb, talking now as often as he listened, and the Aliencon
team roamed the planet freely, investigating what was certainly the
strangest culture in history. There was still the mystery of those
buildings on Tyban IV; that, as well as the robots' origin, would have
to be cleared up before they could leave.
  
 
  Surprisingly, Steffens did not think about the future. Whenever he came
near a robot, he sensed such a general, comfortable air of good feeling
that it warmed him, and he was so preoccupied with watching the robots
that he did little thinking.
  
 
  Something he had not realized at the beginning was that he was as
unusual to the robots as they were to him. It came to him with a great
shock that not one of the robots had ever seen a living thing. Not a
bug, a worm, a leaf. They did not know what flesh was. Only the doctors
knew that, and none of them could readily understand what was meant by
the words "organic matter." It had taken them some time to recognize
that the Earthmen wore suits which were not parts of their bodies, and
it was even more difficult for them to understand why the suits were
needed.
  
 
  But when they did understand, the robots did a surprising thing.
  
 
  At first, because of the excessive radiation, none of the Earthmen
could remain outside the ship for long, even in radiation suits. And
one morning, when Steffens came out of the ship, it was to discover
that hundreds of the robots, working through the night, had effectively
decontaminated the entire area.
  
 
  It was at this point that Steffens asked how many robots there were.
He learned to his amazement that there were more than nine million.
The great mass of them had politely remained a great distance from the
ship, spread out over the planet, since they were highly radioactive.
  
 
  Steffens, meanwhile, courteously allowed Elb to probe into his mind.
The robot extracted all the knowledge of matter that Steffens held,
pondered over the knowledge and tried to digest it, and passed it on to
the other robots. Steffens, in turn, had a difficult time picturing the
mind of a thing that had never known life.
  
 
  He had a vague idea of the robot's history—more, perhaps, then they
knew themselves—but he refrained from forming an opinion until
Aliencon made its report. What fascinated him was Elb's amazing
philosophy, the only outlook, really, that the robot could have had.
  
