After a while, convinced that there was no danger, Steffens had the
ship brought down. When the crew came out of the airlock, they were met
by the robots, and each man found himself with a robot at his side,
humbly requesting to be of service. There were literally thousands of
the robots now, come from all over the barren horizon. The mass of them
stood apart, immobile on a plain near the ship, glinting in the sun
like a vast, metallic field of black wheat.
  
 
  The robots had obviously been built to serve. Steffens began to
   
   feel
   
  their pleasure, to sense it in spite of the blank, expressionless
faces. They were almost like children in their eagerness, yet they were
still reserved. Whoever had built them, Steffens thought in wonder, had
built them well.
  
 
  Ball came to join Steffens, staring at the robots through the clear
plastic of his helmet with baffledly widened eyes. A robot moved out
from the mass in the field, allied itself to him. The first to speak
had remained with Steffens.
  
 
  Realizing that the robot could hear every word he was saying, Ball
was for a while apprehensive. But the sheer unreality of standing and
talking with a multi-limbed, intelligent hunk of dead metal upon the
bare rock of a dead, ancient world, the unreality of it slowly died.
It was impossible not to like the things. There was something in their
very lines which was pleasant and relaxing.
  
 
  Their builders, Steffens thought, had probably thought of that, too.
  
 
  "There's no harm in them," said Ball at last, openly, not minding if
the robots heard. "They seem actually glad we're here. My God, whoever
heard of a robot being glad?"
  
 
  Steffens, embarrassed, spoke quickly to the nearest mechanical: "I hope
you will forgive us our curiosity, but—yours is a remarkable race. We
have never before made contact with a race like yours." It was said
haltingly, but it was the best he could do.
  
 
  The robot made a singularly human nodding motion of its head.
  
 
  "I perceive that the nature of our construction is unfamiliar to you.
Your question is whether or not we are entirely 'mechanical.' I am
not exactly certain as to what the word 'mechanical' is intended to
convey—I would have to examine your thought more fully—but I believe
that there is fundamental similarity between our structures."
  
 
  The robot paused. Steffens had a distinct impression that it was
disconcerted.
  
 
  "I must tell you," the thing went on, "that we ourselves are—curious."
It stopped suddenly, struggling with a word it could not comprehend.
Steffens waited, listening with absolute interest. It said at length:
  
 
  "We know of only two types of living structure. Ours, which is largely
metallic, and that of the
   
   Makers
   
  , which would appear to be somewhat
more like yours. I am not a—doctor—and therefore cannot acquaint you
with the specific details of the Makers' composition, but if you are
interested I will have a doctor brought forward. It will be glad to be
of assistance."
  
 
  It was Steffens' turn to struggle, and the robot waited patiently while
Ball and the second robot looked on in silence. The Makers, obviously,
were whoever or whatever had built the robots, and the "doctors,"
Steffens decided, were probably just that—doctor-robots, designed
specifically to care for the apparently flesh-bodies of the Makers.
  
 
  The efficiency of the things continued to amaze him, but the question
he had been waiting to ask came out now with a rush:
  
 
  "Can you tell us where the Makers are?"
  
 
  Both robots stood motionless. It occurred to Steffens that he couldn't
really be sure which was speaking. The voice that came to him spoke
with difficulty.
  
 
  "The Makers—are not here."
  
 
  Steffens stared in puzzlement. The robot detected his confusion and
went on:
  
 
  "The Makers have gone away. They have been gone for a very long time."
  
 
  Could that be
   
   pain
   
  in its voice, Steffens wondered, and then the
spectre of the ruined cities rose harsh in his mind.
  
 
  War. The Makers had all been killed in that war. And these had not been
killed.
  
 
  He tried to grasp it, but he couldn't. There were robots here in the
midst of a radiation so lethal that
   
   nothing
   
  ,
   
   nothing
   
  could live;
robots on a dead planet, living in an atmosphere of carbon dioxide.
  
 
  The carbon dioxide brought him up sharp.
  
 
  If there had been life here once, there would have been plant life as
well, and therefore oxygen. If the war had been so long ago that the
free oxygen had since gone out of the atmosphere—good God, how old
were the robots? Steffens looked at Ball, then at the silent robots,
then out across the field to where the rest of them stood. The black
wheat. Steffens felt a deep chill.
  
 
  Were they immortal?
  
