When she handed the card back, Joe fought an impulse to tear it to
pieces. He'd done that once and gone through a mountain of red tape to
get another—everyone was required by law to carry a CPA ID card and
show it upon request.
  
 
  "I'm sorry," the girl said. "I didn't know you were a DCT."
  
 
  "And who'll hire a guy with criminal tendencies? You know the score.
When you try to get a job, they ask to see your ID before they even
tell you if there's an opening or not. If your CPA ID says you're a
DCT, you're SOL and they tell you there's no openings. Oh, I've had
several jobs ... jobs like all DCTs get. I've been a garbage man,
street-cleaner, ditch-digger—"
  
 
  On the other side of the room, the jukebox came to life with a roar and
a group of teen-agers scrambled to the dance floor.
  
 
  Feeling safe from hidden microphones because of the uproar, he leaned
across the table and whispered in the girl's ear, "That's what I
want to hire you for. I want you to help me commit a crime. If I get
convicted of a crime, I'll be able to get a good job!"
  
 
  The girl's lips formed a bright red circle. "Say! You really got big
plans, don't you?"
  
 
  He smiled at her admiration. It
   
   was
   
  something big to plan a crime.
A civilization weary of murder, robbery, kidnapping, counterfeiting,
blackmail, rape, arson, and drunkenness had originated the CPA—Crime
Prevention Association. There were no longer any prisons—CPA officials
had declared loudly and emphatically that their job was to prevent
crime, not punish it. And prevent it they did, with thousands of
ingenious crime-prevention devices and methods. They had made crime
almost impossible, and during the previous year, only a few hundred men
in the whole country had been convicted of criminal acts.
  
 
  No crime was ever punished. If a man was smart enough to kill
someone, for instance, he wasn't sent to prison to be punished; he
wasn't punished at all. Instead, he was sent to a hospital where all
criminal tendencies were removed from his mind by psychologists, shock
treatments, encephalographic devices, a form of prefrontal lobotomy and
a dozen other methods. An expensive operation, but since there were few
criminals—only ten in New York during the past year—any city could
afford the CPA hospitals.
  
 
  The CPA system was, actually, cheaper than previous methods because
it did away with the damage caused by countless crimes; did away with
prisons and their guards, large police forces, squad cars and weapons.
  
 
  And, ironically, a man who
   
   did
   
  commit a crime was a sort of hero. He
was a hero to the millions of men and women who had suppressed impulses
to kill someone, beat their mates, get drunk, or kick a dog. Not only a
hero, but because of the CPA Treatment, he was—when he left one of the
CPA hospitals—a thoroughly honest and hard-working individual ... a
man who could be trusted with any responsibility, any amount of money.
And therefore, an EX (a convicted criminal who received the treatment
was commonly called an Ex because he was in the strictest sense of the
word an Ex-criminal) ... an Ex was always offered the best jobs.
  
 
  "Well," the girl said. "I'm honored. Really. But I got a date at ten.
Let's get it over with. You said it'd only take a few minutes."
  
 
  "Okay. Let's go."
  
