The girl followed him across the room, around tables, through a door,
down a hall, through a back door and into the alley.
  
 
  She followed him up the dark alley until he turned suddenly and ripped
her blouse and skirt.
  
 
  He surprised her completely, but when she recovered, she backed away,
her body poised like a wrestler's. "What's the big idea?"
  
 
  "Scream," Joe said. "Scream as loud as you can, and when the cops get
here, tell 'em I tried to rape you."
  
 
  The plan was perfect, he told himself. Attempted rape was one of the
few things that was a crime merely because a man attempted it. A crime
because it theoretically inflicted psychological injury upon the
intended victim—and because millions of women voters had voted it a
crime. On the other hand, attempted murder, robbery, kidnapping, etc.,
were not crimes. They weren't crimes because the DCT didn't complete
the act, and if he didn't complete the act, that meant simply that the
CPA had once again functioned properly.
  
 
  The girl shook her head vigorously. "Sorry, buddy. Can't help you that
way. Why didn't you tell me what you wanted?"
  
 
  "What's the matter?" Joe complained. "I'm not asking you to do anything
wrong."
  
 
  "You stupid jerk. What do you think this is—the Middle Ages? Don't you
know almost every woman knows how to defend herself? I'm a sergeant in
the WSDA!"
  
 
  Joe groaned. The WSDA—Women's Self-Defense Association—a branch of
the CPA. The WSDA gave free instruction in judo and jujitsu, even
developed new techniques of wrestling and instructed only women in
those new techniques.
  
 
  The girl was still shaking her head. "Can't do it, buddy. I'd lose my
rank if you were convicted of—"
  
 
  "Do I have to
   
   make
   
  you scream?" Joe inquired tiredly and advanced
toward the girl.
  
 
  "—and that rank carries a lot of weight. Hey!
   
   Stop it!
   
  "
  
 
  Joe discovered to his dismay that the girl was telling the truth when
she said she was a sergeant in the WSDA. He felt her hands on his body,
and in the time it takes to blink twice, he was flying through the air.
  
 
 
 
  The alley's concrete floor was hard—it had always been hard, but he
became acutely aware of its lack of resiliency when his head struck it.
There was a wonderful moment while the world was filled with beautiful
stars and streaks of lightning through which he heard distant police
sirens. But the wonderful moment didn't last long and darkness closed
in on him.
  
