Hendricks reached into a pocket, withdrew several bills and extended
them. "I'll loan you some money. You can sign an IOU and pay me back a
little at a time."
  
 
  Joe waved the money away. "Listen, why don't you do me a favor? Why
don't you frame me? If I'm such a nuisance, pin a crime on me—any
crime."
  
 
  "Can't do it. Convicting a man of a crime he didn't commit is a
violation of Civil Rights and a crime in itself."
  
 
  "Umm."
  
 
  "Why don't you take the free psycho treatment? A man doesn't
   
   have
   
  to
be a DCT. With the free treatment, psychologists can remove all your
criminal tendencies and—"
  
 
  "Go to those
   
   head-shrinkers
   
  ?"
  
 
  Hendricks shrugged again. "Have it your way."
  
 
  Joe laughed. "If your damned CPA is so all-powerful, why can't you
   
   make
   
  me go?"
  
 
  "Violation of Civil Rights."
  
 
  "Damn it, there must be some way you can help me! We both want the same
thing. We both want to see me convicted of a crime."
  
 
  "How can I help you without committing a crime myself?" Hendricks
walked to his desk, opened a drawer and removed a small black book.
"See this? It contains names and addresses of all the people in New
York who aren't properly protected. Every week we find people who
aren't protected properly—blind spots in our protection devices. As
soon as we find them, we take steps to install anti-robbery devices,
but this is a big city and sometimes it takes days to get the work done.
  
 
  "In the meantime, any one of these people could be robbed. But what can
I do? I can't hold this book in front of your nose and say, 'Here, Joe,
pick a name and go out and rob him.'" He laughed nervously. "If I did
that, I'd be committing a crime myself!"
  
 
  He placed the book on the desk top, took a handkerchief from a pocket
again and wiped sweat from his face. "Excuse me a minute. I'm dying of
thirst. There's a water cooler in the next room."
  
 
  Joe stared at the door to the adjoining office as it closed behind the
big man. Hendricks was—unbelievably—offering him a victim, offering
him a crime!
  
 
  Almost running to the desk, Joe opened the book, selected a name and
address and memorized it:
   
   John Gralewski, Apt. 204, 2141 Orange St.
   
 
 
  When Hendricks came back, Joe said, "Thanks."
  
 
  "Huh? Thanks for what? I didn't do anything."
  
