 
 
   Going straight meant crooked planning. He'd
    
   never make it unless he somehow managed to
   
 
 
  PICK A CRIME
  
 
  By RICHARD R. SMITH
  
 
  Illustrated by DICK FRANCIS
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Galaxy Science Fiction May 1958.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  The girl was tall, wide-eyed and brunette. She had the right curves in
the right places and would have been beautiful if her nose had been
smaller, if her mouth had been larger and if her hair had been wavy
instead of straight.
  
 
  "Hank said you wanted to see me," she said when she stopped beside
Joe's table.
  
 
  "Yeah." Joe nodded at the other chair. "Have a seat." He reached into a
pocket, withdrew five ten-dollar bills and handed them to her. "I want
you to do a job for me. It'll only take a few minutes."
  
 
  The girl counted the money, then placed it in her purse. Joe noticed
a small counterfeit-detector inside the purse before she closed it.
"What's the job?"
  
 
  "Tell you later." He gulped the remainder of his drink, almost pouring
it down his throat.
  
 
  "Hey. You trying to make yourself sick?"
  
 
  "Not sick. Drunk. Been trying to get drunk all afternoon." As the
liquor settled in his stomach, he waited for the warm glow. But the
glow didn't come ... the bartender had watered his drink again.
  
 
  "Trying to get drunk?" the girl inquired. "Are you crazy?"
  
 
  "No. It's simple. If I get drunk, I can join the AAA and get free room
and board for a month while they give me a treatment."
  
 
  It was easy enough to understand, he reflected, but a lot harder to do.
The CPA robot bartenders saw to it that anyone got high if they wanted,
but comparatively few got drunk. Each bartender could not only mix
drinks but could also judge by a man's actions and speech when he was
on the verge of drunkenness. At the proper time—since drunkenness was
illegal—a bartender always watered the drinks.
  
 
  Joe had tried dozens of times in dozens of bars to outsmart them, but
had always failed. And in all of New York's millions, there had been
only a hundred cases of intoxication during the previous year.
  
 
  The girl laughed. "If you're that hard up, I don't know if I should
take this fifty or not. Why don't you go out and get a job like
everyone else?"
  
 
  As an answer, Joe handed her his CPA ID card. She grunted when she
saw the large letters that indicated the owner had Dangerous Criminal
Tendencies.
  
