Hendricks rose from behind the desk, walked leisurely to where Joe was
slouched in a chair. "Give me your CPA ID."
  
 
  Joe handed him the card with trembling fingers. He felt as if the world
had collapsed beneath him. Conspiracy to commit a crime wasn't a crime.
Anyone could conspire. And if the conspirators were prevented from
committing a crime, then that meant the CPA had functioned properly
once again. That meant the CPA had once again
   
   prevented
   
  crime, and
the CPA didn't punish crimes or attempted crimes, and it didn't attempt
to prevent crimes
   
   by
   
  punishment. If it did, that would be a violation
of the New Civil Rights.
  
 
  Hendricks crossed the room, deposited the card in a slot and punched a
button. The machine hummed and a new card appeared.
  
 
  When Hendricks handed him the new card, Joe saw that the words
DANGEROUS CRIMINAL TENDENCIES were now in red and larger than before.
And, in slightly smaller print, the ID card stated that the owner was a
DCT First Class.
  
 
  "You've graduated," Hendricks said coldly. "You guys never learn, do
you? Now you're a DCT First Class instead of a Second Class. You know
what that means?"
  
 
  Hendricks leaned closer until Joe could feel his breath on his face.
"That means your case history will be turned over to the newspapers.
You'll be the hobby of thousands of amateur cops. You know how it
works? It's like this. The Joneses are sitting around tomorrow night
and they're bored. Then Mr. Jones says, 'Let's go watch this Joe
Harper.' So they look up your record—amateur cops always keep records
of First Classes in scrapbooks—and they see that you stop frequently
at Walt's Tavern.
  
 
  "So they go there and they sit and drink and watch you, trying not
to let you know they're watching you. They watch you all night, just
hoping you'll do something exciting, like trying to kill someone,
so they can be the first ones to yell '
   
   Police!
   
  ' They'll watch you
because it's exciting to be an amateur cop, and if they ever
   
   did
   
  prevent you from committing a crime, they'd get a nice reward and
they'd be famous."
  
 
  "Lay off," Joe said. "I got a headache. That girl—"
  
 
  Hendricks leaned even closer and glared. "You listen, Joe. This is
interesting. You see, it doesn't stop with Mr. and Mrs. Jones. There's
thousands of people like them. Years ago, they got their kicks from
reading about guys like you, but these days things are dull because
it's rare when anyone commits a crime. So every time you walk down
the street, there'll be at least a dozen of 'em following you, and no
matter where you go, you can bet there'll be some of 'em sitting next
to you, standing next to you.
  
 
  "During the day, they'll take your picture with their spy cameras that
look like buttons on their coats. At night, they'll peep at you through
your keyhole. Your neighbors across the street will watch you through
binoculars and—"
  
 
  "Lay off!"
  
