The next evening I almost tripped over George Prime coming out of a
liquor store. I ducked quickly into an alley and flagged him. "
   
   What
are you doing out on the street?
   
  "
  
 
  He gave me my martyred look. "Just buying some bourbon. You were out."
  
 
  "But you're not supposed to be off the premises—"
  
 
  "Marge asked me to come. I couldn't tell her I was sorry, but her
husband wouldn't let me, could I?"
  
 
  "Well, certainly not—"
  
 
  "You want me to keep her happy, don't you? You don't want her to get
suspicious."
  
 
  "No, but suppose somebody saw us together! If she ever got a hint—"
  
 
  "I'm sorry," George Prime said contritely. "It seemed the right thing
to do.
   
   You
   
  would have done it. At least that's what my judgment
center maintained. We had quite an argument."
  
 
  "Well, tell your judgment center to use a little sense," I snapped. "I
don't want it to happen again."
  
 
  The next night, I stayed home, even though it was Tuesday night. I was
beginning to get worried. Of course, I did have complete control—I
could snap George Prime off any time I wanted, or even take him in for
a complete recircuiting—but it seemed a pity. He was doing such a nice
job.
  
 
  Marge was docile as a kitten, even more so than before. She sympathized
with my hard day at the office and agreed heartily that the boss,
despite all appearances, was in reality a jabbering idiot. After
dinner, I suggested a movie, but Marge gave me an odd sort of look and
said she thought it would be much nicer to spend the evening at home by
the fire.
  
 
  I'd just gotten settled with the paper when she came into the living
room and sat down beside me. She was wearing some sort of filmy affair
I'd never laid eyes on before, and I caught a whiff of my favorite
perfume.
  
 
  "Georgie?" she said.
  
 
  "Uh?"
  
 
  "Do you still love me?"
  
 
  I set the paper down and stared at her. "How's that? Of course I
still—"
  
 
  "Well, sometimes you don't act much like it."
  
 
  "Mm. I guess I've—uh—got an awful headache tonight." Damn that
perfume!
  
 
  "Oh," said Marge.
  
 
  "In fact, I thought I'd turn in early and get some sleep—"
  
 
  "Sleep," said Marge. There was no mistaking the disappointment in her
voice. Now I knew that things were out of hand.
  
 
  The next evening, I activated George Prime and caught the taxi at the
corner, but I called Ruby and broke my date with her. I took in an
early movie alone and was back by ten o'clock. I left the cab at the
corner and walked quietly up the path toward the garage.
  
 
  Then I stopped. I could see Marge and George Prime through the living
room windows.
  
 
  George Prime was kissing my wife the way I hadn't kissed her in eight
long years. It made my hair stand on end. And Marge wasn't exactly
fighting him off, either. She was coming back for more. After a little,
the lights went off.
  
 
  George Prime was a Super Deluxe model, all right.
  
