Maybe we just weren't meant for each other. I don't know. I used to
envy guys like Harry Folsom at the office. His wife is no joy to live
with either, but at least he could take a spin down to Rio once in a
while with one of the stenographers and get away with it.
  
 
  I knew better than to try. Marge was already so jealous that I couldn't
even smile at the company receptionist without a twinge of guilt. Give
Marge something real to howl about, and I'd be ready for the Rehab
Center in a week.
  
 
  But I'd underestimated Marge. She didn't need anything real, as I found
out when Jeree came along.
  
 
  Business was booming and the secretaries at the office got shuffled
around from time to time. Since I had an executive-type job, I got an
executive-type secretary. Her name was Jeree and she was gorgeous. As
a matter of fact, she was better than gorgeous. She was the sort of
secretary every businessman ought to have in his office. Not to do any
work—just to sit there.
  
 
  Jeree was tall and dark, and she could convey more without saying
anything than I ever dreamed was possible. The first day she was
there, she conveyed to me very clearly that if I cared to supply the
opportunity, she'd be glad to supply the motive.
  
 
  That night, I could tell that Marge had been thinking something over
during the day. She let me get the first bite of dinner halfway to my
mouth, and then she said, "I hear you got a new secretary today."
  
 
  I muttered something into my coffee cup and pretended not to hear.
  
 
  Marge turned on her Accusing Look #7. "I also hear that she's
five-foot-eight and tapes out at 38-25-36 and thinks you're handsome."
  
 
  Marge had quite a spy system.
  
 
  "She couldn't be much of a secretary," she added.
  
 
  "She's a perfectly good secretary," I blurted, and kicked myself
mentally. I should have known Marge's traps by then.
  
 
  Marge exploded. I didn't get any supper, and she was still going strong
at midnight. I tried to argue, but when Marge got going, there was no
stopping her. I had my ultimatum, as far as Jeree was concerned.
  
 
  Harry Folsom administered the
   
   coup de grace
   
  at coffee next morning.
"What you need is an Ego Prime," he said with a grin. "Solve all your
problems. I hear they work like a charm."
  
 
  I set my coffee cup down. Bells were ringing in my ears. "Don't be
ridiculous. It's against the law. Anyway, I wouldn't think of such a
thing. It's—it's indecent."
  
 
  Harry shrugged. "Just joking, old man, just joking. Still, it's fun to
think about, eh? Freedom from wife. Absolutely safe and harmless. Not
even too expensive, if you've got the right contacts. And I've got a
friend who knows a guy—"
  
 
  Just then, Jeree walked past us and flashed me a big smile. I gripped
my cup for dear life and still spilled coffee on my tie.
  
 
  As I said, a guy gets fed up.
  
 
  And maybe opportunity would only knock once.
  
 
  And an Ego Prime would solve all my problems, as Harry had told me.
  
