At first, Marge tried open warfare. She had to clean the place up, she
said. I told her I didn't
   
   want
   
  her to clean it up. She could clean
the whole house as often as she chose, but
   
   I
   
  would clean up the
workshop.
  
 
  After a couple of sharp engagements on that field, Marge staged a
strategic withdrawal and reorganized her attack. A little pile of wood
shavings would be on the workshop floor one night and be gone the next.
A wrench would be back on the rack—upside down, of course. An open
paint can would have a cover on it.
  
 
  I always knew. I screamed loudly and bitterly. I ranted and raved. I
swore I'd rig up a booby-trap with a shotgun.
  
 
  So she quit trying to clean in there and just went in once in a while
to take a look around. I fixed that with the old toothpick-in-the-door
routine. Every time she so much as set foot in that workshop, she had a
battle on her hands for the next week or so. She could count on it. It
was that predictable.
  
 
  She never found out how I knew, and after seven years or so, it wore
her down. She didn't go into the workshop any more.
  
 
  As I said, you've got to be persistent, but you'll win.
  
 
  Eventually.
  
 
  If you're
   
   really
   
  persistent.
  
 
  Now all my effort paid off. I got Marge out of the house for an hour
or two that day and had George Prime delivered and stored in the big
closet in the workshop. They hooked his controls up and left me a
manual of instructions for running him. When I got home that night,
there he was, just waiting to be put to work.
  
 
  After supper, I went out to the workshop—to get the pipe I'd left
there, I said. I pushed George Prime's button, winked at him and
switched on the free-behavior circuits.
  
 
  "Go to it, Brother," I said.
  
 
  George Prime put my pipe in his mouth, lit it and walked back into the
house.
  
 
  Five minutes later, I heard them fighting.
  
 
  It sounded so familiar that I laughed out loud. Then I caught a cab on
the corner and headed uptown.
  
 
  We had quite a night, Jeree and I. I got home just about time to start
for work, and sure enough, there was George Prime starting my car,
business suit on, briefcase under his arm.
  
 
  I pushed the recall and George Prime got out of the car and walked into
the workshop. He stepped into his cradle in the closet. I turned him
off and then drove away in the car.
  
 
  Bless his metallic soul, he'd even kissed Marge good-by for me!
  
