Marge didn't suspect a thing. In fact, George Prime seemed to be having
a remarkable effect on her. I didn't notice anything at first—I was
hardly ever home. But one night I found my pipe and slippers laid out
for me, and the evening paper neatly folded on my chair, and it brought
me up short. Marge had been extremely docile lately. We hadn't had a
good fight in days. Weeks, come to think of it.
  
 
  I thought it over and shrugged. Old age, I figured. She was bound to
mellow sometime.
  
 
  But pretty soon I began to wonder if she wasn't mellowing a little too
much.
  
 
  One night when I got home, she kissed me almost as though she really
meant it. There wasn't an unpleasant word all through dinner, which
happened to be steak with mushrooms, served in the dining room (!) by
candlelight (!!) with dinner music that Marge could never bear, chiefly
because I liked it.
  
 
  We sat over coffee and cigarettes, and it seemed almost like old
times.
   
   Very
   
  old times, in fact I even caught myself looking at Marge
again—really
   
   looking
   
  at her, watching the light catch in her hair,
almost admiring the sparkle in her brown eyes. Sparkle, I said, not
glint.
  
 
  As I mentioned before, Marge was always easy to look at. That night,
she was practically ravishing.
  
 
  "What are you doing to her?" I asked George Prime later, out in the
workshop.
  
 
  "Why, nothing," said George Prime, looking innocent. He couldn't fool
me with his look, though, because it was exactly the look I use when
I'm guilty and pretending to be innocent.
  
 
  "There must be
   
   something
   
  ."
  
 
  George Prime shrugged. "Any woman will warm up if you spend enough time
telling her all the things she wants to hear and pay all the attention
to her that she wants paid to her. That's elemental psychology. I can
give you page references."
  
 
  I ought to mention that George Prime had a complete set of basic texts
run into his circuits, at a slightly additional charge. Never can tell
when an odd bit of information will come in useful.
  
 
  "Well, you must be doing quite a job," I said.
   
   I'd
   
  never managed to
warm Marge up much.
  
 
  "I try," said George Prime.
  
 
  "Oh, I'm not complaining," I hastened to add, forgetting that a Prime's
feelings can't be hurt and that he was only acting like me because it
was in character. "I was just curious."
  
 
  "Of course, George."
  
 
  "I'm really delighted that you're doing so well."
  
 
  "Thank you, George."
  
 
  But the next night when I was with Dawn, who happens to be a gorgeous
redhead who could put Marge to shame on practically any field of battle
except maybe brains, I kept thinking about Marge all evening long, and
wondering if things weren't getting just a little out of hand.
  
