Needless to say, the affairs of George Faircloth took on a new sparkle
with George Prime on hand to cover the home front.
  
 
  For the first week, I was hardly home at all. I must say I felt a
little guilty, leaving poor old George Prime to cope with Marge all
the time—he looked and acted so human, it was easy to forget that
he literally couldn't care less. But I felt apologetic all the same
whenever I took him out of his closet.
  
 
  "She's really a sweet girl underneath it all," I'd say. "You'll learn
to like her after a bit."
  
 
  "Of course I like her," George Prime said. "You told me to, didn't you?
Stop worrying. She's really a sweet girl underneath it all."
  
 
  He sounded convincing enough, but still it bothered me. "You're sure
you understand the exchange mechanism?" I asked. I didn't want any
foul-ups there, as you can imagine.
  
 
  "Perfectly," said George Prime. "When you buzz the recall, I wait for
the first logical opportunity I can find to come out to the workshop,
and you take over."
  
 
  "But you might get nervous. You might inadvertently tip her off."
  
 
  George Prime looked pained. "Really, old man! I'm a Super Deluxe model,
remember? I don't have fourteen activated Hunyadi tubes up in this
cranial vault of mine just for nothing. You're the one that's nervous.
I'll take care of everything. Relax."
  
 
  So I did.
  
 
  Jeree made good all her tacit promises and then some. She had a very
cozy little apartment on 34th Street where we went to relax after
a hard day at the office. When we weren't doing the town, that is.
As long as Jeree didn't try too much conversation, everything was
wonderful.
  
 
  And then, when Jeree got a little boring, there was Sybil in the
accounting department. Or Dorothy in promotion. Or Jane. Or Ingrid.
  
 
  I could go on at some length, but I won't. I was building quite a
reputation for myself around the office.
  
 
  Of course, it was like buying your first 3-V set. In a week or so, the
novelty wears off a little and you start eating on schedule again. It
took a little while, but I finally had things down to a reasonable
program.
  
 
  Tuesday and Thursday nights, I was informally "out" while formally
"in." Sometimes I took Sunday nights "out" if things got too sticky
around the house over the weekend. The rest of the time, George Prime
cooled his heels in his closet. Locked up, of course. Can't completely
trust a wife to observe a taboo, no matter how well trained she is.
  
 
  There, was an irreconcilable amount of risk. George Prime had to
quick-step some questions about my work at the office—there was no
way to supply him with current data until the time for his regular
two-month refill and pattern-accommodation at the laboratory. In the
meantime, George Prime had to make do with what he had.
  
 
  But as he himself pointed out he was a Super Deluxe model.
  
