I dashed into the workshop and punched the recall button as hard as I
could, swearing under my breath. How long had this been going on? I
punched the button again, viciously, and waited.
  
 
  George Prime didn't come out.
  
 
  It was plenty cold out in the workshop that night and I didn't sleep
a wink. About dawn, out came George Prime, looking like a man with a
four-day hangover.
  
 
  Our conversation got down to fundamentals. George Prime kept insisting
blandly that, according to my own directions, he was to pick the first
logical opportunity to come out when I buzzed, and that was exactly
what he'd done.
  
 
  I was furious all the way to work. I'd take care of this nonsense, all
right. I'd have George Prime rewired from top to bottom as soon as the
laboratory could take him.
  
 
  But I never phoned the laboratory. The bank was calling me when I got
to the office. They wanted to know what I planned to do about that
check of mine that had just bounced.
  
 
  "What check?" I asked.
  
 
  "The one you wrote to cash yesterday—five hundred dollars—against
your regular account, Mr. Faircloth."
  
 
  The last I'd looked, I'd had about three thousand dollars in that
account. I told the man so rather bluntly.
  
 
  "Oh, no, sir. That is, you
   
   did
   
  until last week. But all these checks
you've been cashing have emptied the account."
  
 
  He flashed the checks on the desk screen. My signature was on every one
of them.
  
 
  "What about my special account?" I'd learned long before that an
account Marge didn't know about was sound rear-guard strategy.
  
 
  "That's been closed out for two weeks."
  
 
  I hadn't written a check against that account for over a year! I glared
at the ceiling and tried to think things through.
  
 
  I came up with a horrible thought.
  
 
  Marge had always had her heart set on a trip to Bermuda. Just to get
away from it all, she'd say. A second honeymoon.
  
 
  I got a list of travel agencies from the business directory and started
down them. The third one I tried had a pleasant tenor voice. "No, sir,
not
   
   Mrs.
   
  Faircloth.
   
   You
   
  bought two tickets. One way. Champagne
flight to Bermuda."
  
 
  "When?" I choked out.
  
 
  "Why, today, as a matter of fact. It leaves Idlewild at eleven
o'clock—"
  
 
  I let him worry about my amnesia and started home fast. I didn't know
what they'd given that Prime for circuits, but there was no question
now that he was out of control—
   
   way
   
  out of control. And poor Marge,
all worked up for a second honeymoon—
  
 
  Then it struck me. Poor Marge? Poor sucker George! No Prime in his
right circuits would behave this way without some human guidance and
that meant only one thing: Marge had spotted him. It had happened
before. Couple of nasty court battles I'd read about. And she'd known
all about George Prime.
  
 
 
   For how long?
   
 
