Existence dragged. Paradoxically, time dropped away like a cloak as
the sense of individual hours and minutes vanished, and into its place
crept a slow-torturing substitute. As the ship revolved, monotonously,
first the ceiling and then the floor took on dullish, maddening
aspects, eyes ached continuously from staring at them time and again
without surcease. The steady, drumming rockets crashed into the mind
and the walls shrieked malevolently on the eyeballs. Dull, throbbing
sameness of the poorly filtered air, a growing taint in the nostrils.
Damp warm skin, reeking blankets. The taste of fuel in the mouth for
refreshment. Slowly mounting mental duress. And above all the drumming
of the rockets.
  
 
  Once, a sudden, frightening change of pitch in the rockets and a wild,
sickening lurch. Meteor rain. Maddening, plunging swings to the far
right and left, made without warning. A torn lip as a sudden lurch
tears the faucet from her mouth. A shattered tooth.
  
 
  "Sorry!" Rat whispered.
  
 
  "Shut up and drive!" she cried.
  
 
  "Patti ..." Judith called out, in pain.
  
 
  Peace of mind followed peace of body into a forgotten limbo of lost
things, a slyly climbing madness directed at one another. Waspish
words uttered in pain, fatigue and temper. Fractiousness. A hot,
confined, stale hell. Sleep became a hollow mockery, as bad water
and concentrated tablets brought on stomach pains to plague them.
Consciousness punctured only by spasms of lethargy, shared to some
extent by the invalids. Above all, crawling lassitude and incalescent
tempers.
  
 
  Rat watched the white, drawn face swing in the hammock beside him. And
his hands never faltered on the controls.
  
 
  Never a slackening of the terrific pace; abnormal speed, gruelling
drive ... drive ... drive. Fear. Tantalizing fear made worse because
Rat couldn't understand. Smothered moaning that ate at his nerves.
Grim-faced, sleep-wracked, belted to the chair, driving!
  
 
  "How many days? How many days!" Gray begged of him thousands of times
until the very repetition grated on her eardrums. "How many days?"
His only answer was an inhuman snarl, and the cruel blazing of those
inhuman eyes.
  
 
  She fell face first to the floor. "I can't keep it up!" she cried. The
sound of her voice rolled along the hot steel deck. "I cant! I cant!"
  
 
  A double handful of tepid water was thrown in her face. "Get up!" Rat
stood over her, face twisted, his body hunched. "Get up!" She stared at
him, dazed. He kicked her. "Get up!" The tepid water ran off her face
and far away she heard Judith calling.... She forced herself up. Rat
was back in the chair.
  
