The girl did not answer then and a hushed expectancy fell over the
ship. Somewhere aft a small motor was running. Wind whistled past the
open lock.
  
 
  "I've caused plenty of trouble haven't I?" she asked aloud, finally.
"This was certainly a fool stunt, and I'm guilty of a lot of fool
stunts! I just didn't realize until now the
   
   why
   
  of that law."
  
 
  "Don't talk so much," the nurse admonished. "A lot of people have found
out the
   
   why
   
  of that law the hard way, just as you are doing, and
lived to remember it. Until hospitals are built on this forlorn world,
humans like you who haven't been properly conditioned will have to stay
right at home."
  
 
  "How about these men that live and work here?"
  
 
  "They never get here until they've been through the mill first.
Adenoids, appendix', all the extra parts they can get along without."
  
 
  "Well," Judith said. "I've certainly learned my lesson!"
  
 
  Gray didn't answer, but from out of the darkness surrounding her came a
sound remarkably resembling a snort.
  
 
  "Gray?" Judith asked fearfully.
  
 
  "Yes?"
  
 
  "Hasn't the pilot been gone an awfully long time?"
  
 
  Rat himself provided the answer by alighting at the lip with a jar that
shook the ship. He was breathing heavily and lugging something in his
arms. The burden groaned.
  
 
  "Gladney!" Nurse Gray exclaimed.
  
 
  "I got." Rat confirmed. "Yes, Gladney. Damn heavy, Gladney."
  
 
  "But how?" she demanded. "What of Roberds and Peterson?"
  
 
  "Trick," he sniggered. "I burn down my shack. Boss run out. I run in.
Very simple." He packed Gladney into the remaining hammock and snapped
buckles.
  
 
  "And Peterson?" she prompted.
  
 
  "Oh yes. Peterson. So sorry about Peterson. Had to fan him."
  
 
  "
   
   Fan
   
  him? I don't understand."
  
 
  "Fan. With chair. Everything all right. I apologized." Rat finished up
and was walking back to the lock. They heard a slight rustling of wings
as he padded away.
  
 
  He was back instantly, duplicating his feat of a short time ago.
Cursing shouts were slung on the night air, and the deadly spang of
bullets bounced on the hull! Some entered the lock. The Centaurian
snapped it shut. Chunks of lead continued to pound the ship. Rat leaped
for the pilot's chair, heavily, a wing drooping.
  
 
  "You've been hurt!" Gray cried. A small panel light outlined his
features. She tried to struggle up.
  
 
  "Lie still! We go. Boss get wise." With lightning fingers he flicked
several switches on the panel, turned to her. "Hold belly. Zoom!"
  
 
  Gray folded her hands across her stomach and closed her eyes.
  
 
  Rat unlocked the master level and shoved!
  
