They did get thirsty, soon. A damnable hot thirst accented by
the knowledge that water was precious, a thirst increased by a
dried-up-in-the-mouth sensation. Their first drink was strangely
bitter; tragically disappointing. Patti Gray suddenly swung upright in
the hammock and kicked her legs. She massaged her throat with a nervous
hand, wiped damp hair from about her face.
  
 
  "I have to have a drink."
  
 
  Rat stared at her without answer.
  
 
  "I said, I have to have a drink!"
  
 
  "Heard you."
  
 
  "Well...?"
  
 
  "Well, nothing. Stall. Keep water longer."
  
 
  She swung a vicious boot and missed by inches. Rat grinned, and made
his way aft, hand over hand. He treaded cautiously along the deck. "Do
like this," he called over his shoulder. "Gravity punk too. Back and
under, gravity." He waited until she joined him at the water tap.
  
 
  They stood there glaring idiotically at each other.
  
 
  She burst out laughing. "They even threw the drinking cups out!" Rat
inched the handle grudgingly and she applied lips to the faucet.
  
 
  "Faugh!" Gray sprang back, forgot herself and lost her balance, sat
down on the deck and spat out the water. "It's hot! It tastes like hell
and it's hot! It must be fuel!"
  
 
  Rat applied his lips to the tap and sampled. Coming up with a mouthful
he swished it around on his tongue like mouthwash. Abruptly he
contrived a facial contortion between a grin and a grimace, and let
some of the water trickle from the edges of his mouth. He swallowed and
it cost him something.
  
 
  "No. I mean yes, I think. Water, no doubt. Yes. Fuel out, water in.
Swish-swush. Dammit, Greaseball forget to wash tank!"
  
 
  "But what makes it so hot?" She worked her mouth to dry-rinse the taste
of the fuel.
  
 
  "Ship get hot. Water on sun side. H-m-m-m-m-m-m."
  
 
  "H-m-m-m-m-m-m-m what?"
  
 
  "Flip-flop." He could talk with his hands as well. "Hot side over like
pancake." Rat hobbled over to the board and sat down. An experimental
flick on a lever produced nothing. Another flick, this time followed by
a quivering jar. He contemplated the panel board while fastening his
belt.
  
 
  "H-m-m-m-m-m-m," the lower lip protruded.
  
 
  Gray protested. "Oh, stop humming and do something! That wa—" the
word was queerly torn from her throat, and a scream magically filled
the vacancy. Nurse Gray sat up and rubbed a painful spot that had
suddenly appeared on her arm. She found her nose bleeding and another
new, swelling bruise on the side of her head. Around her the place was
empty. Bare.
  
 
  No, not quite. A wispy something was hanging just out of sight in
the corner of the eye; the water tap was now moulded
   
   upward
   
  , beads
glistening on its handle. The wispy thing caught her attention again
and she looked up.
  
 
  Two people, tightly wrapped and bound in hammocks, were staring down at
her, amazed, swinging on their stomachs. Craning further, she saw Rat.
He was hanging upside down in the chair, grinning at her in reverse.
  
 
  "Flip-flop," he laconically explained.
  
 
  "For cripes sakes, Jehosaphat!" Gladney groaned. "Turn me over on my
back! Do something!" Gray stood on tiptoes and just could pivot the
hammocks on their rope-axis.
  
 
  "And now, please, just
   
   how
   
  do I get into mine?" she bit at Rat.
  
