When the door slammed shut Roberds locked it. Peterson slumped in the
chair.
  
 
  "Do you mean that, Chief? About taking the ship yourself?"
  
 
  "True enough." Roberds cast an anxious glance at the partly closed
door, lowered his voice. "It'll cost me my job, but that girl in there
has to be taken to a hospital quickly! And it's her luck to be landed
on a planet that doesn't boast even one! So it's Earth ... or she
dies. I'd feel a lot better too if we could get Gladney to a hospital,
I'm not too confident of that patching job." He pulled a pipe from a
jacket pocket. "So, might as well kill two birds with one stone ... and
that wasn't meant to be funny!"
  
 
  Peterson said nothing, sat watching the door.
  
 
  "Rat has the right idea," Roberds continued, "but I had already thought
of it. About the bunks and lockers. Greaseball has been out there all
night tearing them out. We just
   
   might
   
  be able to hop by dawn ... and
hell of a long, grinding hop it will be!"
  
 
  The nurse came out of the door.
  
 
  "How is she?" Roberds asked.
  
 
  "Sleeping," Gray whispered. "But sinking...."
  
 
  "We can take off at dawn, I think." He filled the pipe and didn't look
at her. "You'll have to spend most of the trip in a hammock."
  
 
  "I can take it." Suddenly she smiled, wanly. "I was with the Fleet. How
long will it take?"
  
 
  "Eight days, in
   
   that
   
  ship."
  
 
  Roberds lit his pipe, and carefully hid his emotions. He knew Peterson
was harboring the same thoughts. Eight days in space, in a small ship
meant for two, and built for planetary surface flights. Eight days in
that untrustworthy crate, hurtling to save the lives of that girl and
Gladney.
  
 
  "Who was that ... man? The one you put out?" Gray asked.
  
 
  "We call him Rat," Roberds said.
  
 
  She didn't ask why. She said: "Why couldn't he pilot the ship, I mean?
What is his record?"
  
 
  Peterson opened his mouth.
  
 
  "Shut up, Peterson!" the Chief snapped. "We don't talk about his record
around here, Miss Gray. It's not a pretty thing to tell."
  
 
  "Stow it, Chief," said Peterson. "Miss Gray is no pantywaist." He
turned to the nurse. "Ever hear of the Sansan massacre?"
  
 
  Patti Gray paled. "Yes," she whispered. "Was Rat in that?"
  
 
  Roberds shook his head. "He didn't take part in it. But Rat was
attached to a very important office at the time, the outpost watch.
And when Mad Barry Sansan and his gang of thugs swooped down on the
Ganymedean colony, there was no warning. Our friend Rat was AWOL.
  
 
  "As to who he is ... well, just one of those freaks from up around
Centauria somewhere. He's been hanging around all the fields and dumps
on Mars a long time, finally landed up here."
  
 
  "But," protested Miss Gray, "I don't understand? I always thought that
leaving one's post under such circumstances meant execution."
  
 
  The Chief Consul nodded. "It does, usually. But this was a freak case.
It would take hours to explain. However, I'll just sum it up in one
word: politics. Politics, with which Rat had no connection saved him."
  
 
  The girl shook her head, more in sympathy than condemnation.
  
 
  "Are you expecting the others in soon?" she asked. "It wouldn't be
right to leave Peterson."
  
 
  "They will be in, in a day or two. Peterson will beat it over to Base
station for repairs, and to notify Earth we're coming. He'll be all
right."
  
 
  Abruptly she stood up. "Goodnight gentlemen. Call me if I'm needed."
  
 
  Roberds nodded acknowledgement. The door to the side room closed behind
her. Peterson hauled his chair over to the desk. He sniffed the air.
  
 
  "Damned rat!" he whispered harshly. "They ought to make a law forcing
him to wear dark glasses!"
  
 
  Roberds smiled wearily. "His eyes do get a man, don't they?"
  
 
  "I'd like to burn 'em out!" Peterson snarled.
  
