 
  PRISON PLANET
  
 
  By BOB TUCKER
  
 
  To remain on Mars meant death from agonizing
   
  space-sickness, but Earth-surgery lay
   
  days of flight away. And there was only
   
  a surface rocket in which to escape—with
   
  a traitorous Ganymedean for its pilot.
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Planet Stories Fall 1942.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  "Listen, Rat!" Roberds said, "what
   
   I
   
  say goes around here. It doesn't
happen to be any of your business. I'm still in possession of my wits,
and I know Peterson can't handle that ship. Furthermore Gladney will
be in it too, right along side of that sick girl in there! And Rat,
get this:
   
   I'm
   
  going to pilot that ship. Understand? Consulate or
no Consulate, job or no job, I'm wheeling that crate to Earth because
this is an emergency. And the emergency happens to be bigger than my
position, to me at any rate." His tone dropped to a deadly softness.
"Now will you kindly remove your stinking carcass from this office?"
  
 
  Unheeding, Rat swung his eyes around in the gloom and discovered the
woman, a nurse in uniform. He blinked at her and she returned the look,
wavering. She bit her lip and determination flowed back. She met the
stare of his boring, off-colored eyes. Rat grinned suddenly. Nurse Gray
almost smiled back, stopped before the others could see it.
  
 
  "Won't go!" The Centaurian resumed his fight. "You not go, lose job,
black-listed. Never get another. Look at me. I know." He retreated
a precious step to escape a rolled up fist. "Little ship carry four
nice. Rip out lockers and bunks. Swing hammocks. Put fuel in water
tanks. Live on concentrates. Earth hospital fix bellyache afterwards,
allright. I pilot ship. Yes?"
  
 
  "No!" Roberds screamed.
  
 
  Almost in answer, a moan issued from a small side room. The men in the
office froze as Nurse Gray ran across the room. She disappeared through
the narrow door.
  
 
  "Peterson," the field manager ordered, "come over here and help me
throw this rat out...." He went for Rat. Peterson swung up out of his
chair with balled fist. The outlander backed rapidly.
  
 
  "No need, no need, no need!" he said quickly. "I go." Still backing, he
blindly kicked at the door and stepped into the night.
  
