Rat helped Greaseball fill the water tanks to capacity with fuel,
checked the concentrated rations and grunted.
  
 
  Greaseball looked over the interior and chuckled. "The boss said strip
her, and strip her I did. All right, Rat, outside." He followed the
Centaurian out, and pulled the ladder away from the lip of the lock.
The two walked across the strip of sandy soil to the office building.
On tiptoes, Greaseball poked his head through the door panel. "All set."
  
 
  Roberds nodded at him. "Stick with it!" and jerked a thumb at Rat
outside. Grease nodded understanding.
  
 
  "Okay, Rat, you can go to bed now." He dropped the ladder against the
wall and sat on it. "Good night." He watched Rat walk slowly away.
  
 
  Swinging down the path towards his own rambling shack, Rat caught a
sibilant whisper. Pausing, undecided, he heard it again.
  
 
  "Here ... can you see me?" A white clad arm waved in the gloom. Rat
regarded the arm in the window. Another impatient gesture, and he
stepped to the sill.
  
 
  "Yes?"—in the softest of whispers. The voices of the men in droning
conversation drifted in. "What you want?"
  
 
  Nothing but silence for a few hanging seconds, and then: "Can you pilot
that ship?" Her voice was shaky.
  
 
  He didn't answer, stared at her confused. He felt her fear as clearly
as he detected it in her words.
  
 
  "Well,
   
   can
   
  you?" she demanded.
  
 
  "Damn yes!" he stated simply. "It now necessary?"
  
 
  "Very! She is becoming worse. I'm afraid to wait until daylight.
And ... well, we want
   
   you
   
  to pilot it! She refuses to risk
Mr. Roberds' job. She favors you."
  
 
  Rat stepped back, astonished. "She?"
  
 
  Nurse Gray moved from the window and Rat saw the second form in the
room, a slight, quiet figure on a small cot. "My patient," Nurse Gray
explained. "She overheard our conversation awhile ago. Quick, please,
can you?"
  
 
  Rat looked at her and then at the girl on the cot. He vanished from the
window. Almost immediately, he was back again.
  
 
  "When?" he whispered.
  
 
  "As soon as possible. Yes. Do you know...?" but he had gone again.
Nurse Gray found herself addressing blackness. On the point of turning,
she saw him back again.
  
 
  "Blankets," he instructed. "Wrap in blankets. Cold—hot too. Wrap
good!" And he was gone again. Gray blinked away the illusion he
disappeared upwards.
  
 
  She ran over to the girl. "Judith, if you want to back down, now is the
time. He'll be back in a moment."
  
 
  "No!" Judith moaned. "No!" Gray smiled in the darkness and began
wrapping the blankets around her. A light tapping at the window
announced the return of Rat. The nurse pushed open the window wide, saw
him out there with arms upstretched.
  
 
  "Grit your teeth and hold on! Here we go." She picked up the blanketed
girl in both arms and walked to the window. Rat took the girl easily as
she was swung out, the blackness hid them both. But he appeared again
instantly.
  
 
  "Better lock window," he cautioned. "Stall, if Boss call. Back
soon...." and he was gone.
  
 
  To Nurse Gray the fifteen minute wait seemed like hours, impatient
agonizing hours of tight-lipped anxiety.
  
