"There it is," announced Thig, dropping the limp body of the captured
Earthman to the metal deck-plates. "It is a male of the species that
must have built the cities we saw as we landed."
  
 
  "He resembles Thig," announced Kam. "But for the strange covering he
wears he might be Thig."
  
 
  "Thig will be this creature!" announced Torp. "With a psychic relay we
will transfer the Earthman's memories and meager store of knowledge to
the brain of Thig! He can then go out and scout this world without
arousing suspicion. While he is gone, I will take Kam and explore the
two inner planets."
  
 
  "You are the commander," said Thig. "But I wish this beast did not wear
these clumsy sheathing upon his body. On Ortha we do not hamper the use
of our limbs so."
  
 
  "Do not question the word of your commander," growled Torp, swelling
out his thick chest menacingly. "It is for the good of our people that
you disguise yourself as an Earthman."
  
 
  "For the good of the Horde," Thig intoned almost piously as he lifted
Terry's body and headed for the laboratory.
  
 
  Service for the Horde was all that the men of Ortha knew. Carefully
cultured and brought to life in the laboratories of their Horde, they
knew neither father nor mother. Affection and love were entirely
lacking in their early training and later life. They were trained
antlike from childhood that only the growth and power of the Horde
were of any moment. Men and women alike toiled and died like unfeeling
robots of flesh and bone for the Horde. The Horde was their religion,
their love-life, their everything!
  
 
  So it was that the bodies of the Earthman and the Orthan were strapped
on two parallel tables of chill metal and the twin helmets, linked to
one another by the intricacies of the psychic relay, put upon their
heads.
  
 
  For ten hours or more the droning hum of the relay sucked Terry's brain
dry of knowledge. The shock upon the nervous system of the Earthman
proved too violent and his heart faltered after a time and stopped
completely. Twice, with subtle drugs they restored pseudo-life to his
body and kept the electrical impulses throbbing from his tortured
brain, but after the third suspension of life Thig removed his helmet.
  
 
  "There is nothing more to learn," he informed his impassive comrades.
"Now, let us get on with the plastic surgery that is required. My new
body must return to its barbaric household before undue attention is
aroused. And when I return I will take along some of the gleaming
baubles we found on the red planet—these people value them highly."
  
 
  An hour later, his scars and altered cartilage already healed and
painless, Thig again scraped sand over the entrance to the space ship
and set out along the moonlit beach toward the nearest path running
inland to his home.
  
 
  Memory was laying the country bare about him, Terry's own childhood
memories of this particular section of Long Island. Here was the place
where Jake and Ted had helped him dig for the buried treasure that
old 'Notch-ear' Beggs had told them so exactly about. Remembrance of
that episode gave Thig an idea about the little lump of jewels in his
pocket. He had found them in a chest along the beach!
  
 
  He was coming up on the porch now and at the sound of his foot on
the sagging boards the screen door burst open and three little
Earth-creatures were hugging at his legs. An odd sensation, that his
acquired memories labeled as pleasure, sent a warm glow upward from
around his heart.
  
 
  Then he saw the slender red-haired shape of a woman, the mate of the
dead man he knew, and confusion struck his well-trained brain. Men
had no mates on Ortha, sex had been overthrown with all the other
primitive impulses of barbarism; so he was incapable of understanding
the emotions that swept through his acquired memory.
  
 
  Unsteadily he took her in his arms and felt her warm lips pressed,
trembling, against his own. That same hot wave of pulsing blood choked
achingly up into his throat.
  
 
  "Lew, dear," Ellen was asking, "where have you been all day? I called
up at the landing but you were not there. I wanted to let you know that
Saddlebag Publications sent a check for $50 for "Reversed Revolvers"
and three other editors asked for shorts soon."
  
