"You have done well," announced Torp when Thig had completed his report
on the resources and temperatures of various sections of Terra. "We now
have located three worlds fit for colonization and so we will return to
Ortha at once.
  
 
  "I will recommend the conquest of this planet, 72-P-3 at once and the
complete destruction of all biped life upon it. The mental aberrations
of the barbaric natives might lead to endless complications if they
were permitted to exist outside our ordered way of life. I imagine that
three circuits of the planet about its primary should prove sufficient
for the purposes of complete liquidation."
  
 
  "But why," asked Thig slowly, "could we not disarm all the natives and
exile them on one of the less desirable continents, Antarctica for
example or Siberia? They are primitive humans even as our race was once
a race of primitives. It is not our duty to help to attain our own
degree of knowledge and comfort?"
  
 
  "Only the good of the Horde matters!" shouted Torp angrily. "Shall a
race of feeble-witted beasts, such as these Earthmen, stand in the way
of a superior race? We want their world, and so we will take it. The
Law of the Horde states that all the universe is ours for the taking."
  
 
  "Let us get back to Ortha at once, then," gritted out Thig savagely.
"Never again do I wish to set foot upon the soil of this mad planet.
There are forces at work upon Earth that we of Ortha have long
forgotten."
  
 
  "Check the blood of Thig for disease, Kam," ordered Torp shortly. "His
words are highly irrational. Some form of fever perhaps native to this
world. While you examine him I will blast off for Ortha."
  
 
  Thig followed Kam into the tiny laboratory and found a seat beside the
squat scientist's desk. His eyes roamed over the familiar instruments
and gauges, each in its own precise position in the cases along the
walls. His gaze lingered longest on the stubby black ugliness of
a decomposition blaster in its rack close to the deck. A blast of
the invisible radiations from that weapon's hot throat and flesh or
vegetable fiber rotted into flaky ashes.
  
 
  The ship trembled beneath their feet; it tore free from the feeble
clutch of the sand about it, and they were rocketing skyward. Thig's
broad fingers bit deep into the unyielding metal of his chair. Suddenly
he knew that he must go back to Earth, back to Ellen and the children
of the man he had helped destroy. He loved Ellen, and nothing must
stand between them! The Hordes of Ortha must find some other world, an
empty world—this planet was not for them.
  
 
  "Turn back!" he cried wildly. "I must go back to Earth. There is a
woman there, helpless and alone, who needs me! The Horde does not need
this planet."
  
 
  Kam eyed him coldly and lifted a shining hypodermic syringe from its
case. He approached Thig warily, aware that disease often made a maniac
of the finest members of the Horde.
  
 
  "No human being is more important than the Horde," he stated baldly.
"This woman of whom you speak is merely one unit of the millions we
must eliminate for the good of the Horde."
  
 
  Then it was that Thig went berserk. His fists slashed into the thick
jaw of the scientist and his fingers ripped at the hard cords overlying
the Orthan's vital throat tubes. His fingers and thumb gouged deep into
Kam's startled throat and choked off any cry for assistance before it
could be uttered.
  
 
  Kam's hand swept down to the holster swung from his intricate harness
and dragged his blaster from it. Thig's other hand clamped over his and
for long moments they swayed there, locked together in silent deadly
struggle. The fate of a world hung in the balance as Kam's other hand
fought against that lone arm of Thig.
  
