Bam, Bam, Bam, the blood pounded in his ears. Like repeated blows of a
hammer they shook his booming head. No longer was Torp above him. He
was in the corner of the laboratory, a crumpled blood-smeared heap of
bruised flesh and bone. He was unfettered and the blood was caked upon
his skull and in his matted hair. Torp must have thought he had killed
him with those savage blows upon the head.
  
 
  Even Torp, thought Thig ruefully, gave way to the primitive rage of his
ancestors at times; but to that very bit of unconscious atavism he now
owed his life. A cool-headed robot of an Orthan would have efficiently
used the blaster to destroy any possibility of remaining life in his
unconscious body.
  
 
  Thig rolled slowly over so that his eye found the door into the control
room. Torp would be coming back again to dispose of their bodies
through the refuse lock. Already the body of Kam was gone. He wondered
why he had been left until last. Perhaps Torp wished to take cultures
of his blood and tissues to determine whether a disease was responsible
for his sudden madness.
  
 
  The cases of fragile instruments were just above his head. Association
of memories brought him the flash of the heavy blaster in its rack
beneath them. His hand went up and felt the welcome hardness of the
weapon. He tugged it free.
  
 
  In a moment he was on his knees crawling across the plates of the deck
toward the door. Halfway across the floor he collapsed on his face,
the metal of the gun making a harsh clang. He heard the feet of Torp
scuffle out of silence and a choked cry in the man's throat squalled
out into a senseless whinny.
  
 
  Thig raised himself up on a quivering elbow and slid the black length
of the blaster in front of him. His eyes sought the doorway and stared
full into the glaring vacant orbs of his commander. Torp leaned there
watching him, his breath gurgling brokenly through his deep-bitten
lips. The clawing marks of nails, fingernails, furrowed his face and
chest. He was a madman!
  
 
  The deadly attack of Thig; his own violent avenging of Kam's death, and
now the apparent return of the man he had killed come to life had all
served to jolt his rigidly trained brain from its accustomed groove.
The shock had been too much for the established thought-processes of
the Orthan.
  
 
  So Thig shot him where he stood, mercifully, before that vacant mad
stare set him, too, to gibbering and shrieking. Then he stepped over
the skeleton-thing that had been Torp, using the new strength that
victory had given him to drive him along.
  
 
  He had saved a world's civilization from extinction! The thought
sobered him; yet, somehow, he was pleased that he had done so. After
all, it had been the Earthwoman and the children he had been thinking
of while he battled Kam, a selfish desire to protect them all.
  
 
  He went to the desk where Torp had been writing in the ship's log and
read the last few nervously scrawled lines:
  
 
 
   Planet 72-P-3 unfit for colonization. Some pernicious disease that
strikes at the brain centers and causes violent insanity is existent
there. Thig, just returned from a survey of the planet, went mad and
destroyed Kam. In turn I was forced to slay him. But it is not ended.
Already I feel the insidious virus of....
   
 
 
  And there his writing ended abruptly.
  
 
  Thig nodded. That would do it. He set the automatic pilot for the
planet Ortha. Unless a rogue asteroid or a comet crossed the ship's
path she would return safely to Ortha with that mute warning of danger
on 72-P-3. The body of Torp would help to confirm his final message.
  
 
  Then Thig crossed the cabin to the auxiliary life boat there, one of
a half-dozen space ships in miniature nested within the great ship's
hull, and cut free from the mother vessel.
  
 
  He flipped the drive lever, felt the thrumming of the rockets driving
him from the parent ship. The sensation of free flight against his new
body was strangely exhilerating and heady. It was the newest of the
emotions he had experienced on Earth since that day, so many months
before, when he had felt the warmness of Ellen's lips tight against his.
  
 
 
 
   Thig flipped the drive lever, felt the thrumming of the
rockets driving him from the parent ship.
   
 
 
 
  He swung about to the port, watched the flaming drive-rockets of the
great exploratory ship hurl it toward far-away Ortha, and there was no
regret in his mind that he was not returning to the planet of his first
existence.
  
 
  He thought of the dull greys and blacks of his planet, of the
monotonous routine of existence that had once been his—and his heart
thrilled to the memories of the starry nights and perfect exciting days
he had spent on his three month trip over Earth.
  
 
  He made a brief salute to the existence he had known, turned with a
tiny sigh, and his fingers made brief adjustments in the controls. The
rocket-thrum deepened, and the thin whistle of tenuous air clutching
the ship echoed through the hull-plates.
  
 
  He thought of many things in those few moments. He watched the
roundness of Earth flatten out, then take on the cup-like illusion
that all planets had for an incoming ship. He reduced the drive of his
rockets to a mere whisper, striving to control the impatience that
crowded his mind.
  
 
  He shivered suddenly, remembering his utter callousness the first time
he had sent a space ship whipping down toward the hills and valleys
below. And there was a sickness within him when he fully realized that,
despite his acquired memory and traits, he was an alien from outer
space.
  
 
  He fingered the tiny scars that had completely obliterated the slight
differences in his appearance from an Earthman's, and his fingers
trembled a bit, as he bent and stared through the vision port. He said
a brief prayer in his heart to a God whose presence he now felt very
deeply. There were tears in the depths of his eyes, then, and memories
were hot, bitter pains.
  
