 
  QUEST OF THIG
  
 
  By BASIL WELLS
  
 
  Thig of Ortha was the vanguard of the conquering
   
  "HORDE." He had blasted across trackless space
   
  to subdue a defenseless world—only to meet on
   
  Earth emotions that were more deadly than weapons.
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Planet Stories Fall 1942.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  Thig carefully smoothed the dark sand and seaweed of the lonely beach
over the metal lid of the flexible ringed tunnel that linked the grubby
ship from another planet with the upper air. He looked out across the
heaving waters of the Sound toward Connecticut. He stared appraisingly
around at the luxuriant green growth of foliage further inland; and
started toward the little stretch of trees and brush, walking carefully
because of the lesser gravitation.
  
 
  Thig was shorter than the average Earthman—although on Ortha he
was well above the average in height—but his body was thick and
powerfully muscled. His skull was well-shaped and large; his features
were regular, perhaps a trifle oversize, and his hair and eyes were
a curiously matching blend of reddish brown. Oddest of all, he wore
no garments, other than the necessary belt and straps to support his
rod-like weapon of white metal and his pouches for food and specimens.
  
 
  The Orthan entered the narrow strip of trees and crossed to the
little-used highway on the other side. Here he patiently sat down to
wait for an Earthman or an Earthwoman to pass. His task now was to
bring a native, intact if possible, back to the carefully buried space
cruiser where his two fellows and himself would drain the creature's
mentality of all its knowledge. In this way they could learn whether a
planet was suited for colonization by later swarms of Orthans.
  
 
  Already they had charted over a hundred celestial bodies but of them
all only three had proven worthy of consideration. This latest planet,
however, 72-P-3 on the chart, appeared to be an ideal world in every
respect. Sunlight, plenty of water and a dense atmospheric envelope
made of 72-P-3 a paradise among planets.
  
 
  The explorer from another world crouched into the concealment of a
leafy shrub. A creature was approaching. Its squat body was covered
with baggy strips of bluish cloth and it carried a jointed rod of metal
and wood in its paw. It walked upright as did the men of Ortha.
  
 
  Thig's cold eyes opened a trifle wider as he stared into the thing's
stupid face. It was as though he was looking into a bit of polished
metal at the reflection of himself!
  
 
  The Earthman was opposite now and he must waste no more precious
time. The mighty muscles of the Orthan sent him hurtling across the
intervening space in two prodigious bounds, and his hands clamped
across the mouth and neck of the stranger....
  
