"Home again," whispered Ellen as she stood beside Thig twelve weeks
later and gazed tearfully at the weathered little gray house. She knelt
beside the front stoop and reached for the key hidden beneath it.
  
 
  "The west was wonderful; tremendous, vast and beautiful," she went
on as they climbed the steps, "but nowhere was there any place as
beautiful as our own little strip of sky and water."
  
 
  Thig sank into a dusty old swing that hung on creaking chains from the
exposed rafters of the porch roof. He looked down at the dusty gray car
and the bulbous silvery bulk of the trailer that had been their living
quarters for almost three months. Strange thoughts were afloat in the
chaos of his cool Orthan brain.
  
 
  Tonight or tomorrow night at the latest he must contact his two fellows
and report that Earth was a planetary paradise. No other world,
including Ortha, was so well-favored and rich. An expeditionary force
to wipe the grotesque civilizations of Earth out of existence would,
of course, be necessary before the first units of new Hordes could be
landed. And there Thig balked. Why must they destroy these people,
imperfect though their civilization might be, to make room for the
Hordes?
  
 
  Thig tried to tell himself that it was the transmitted thoughts of the
dead Earthman that made him feel so, but he was not too sure. For three
months he had lived with people who loved, hated, wept and sacrificed
for reasons that he had never known existed. He had learned the heady
glory of thinking for himself and making his own decisions. He had
experienced the primitive joy of matching his wits and tongue against
the wits of other unpredictable human beings. There was no abrupt
division of men and women into definite classes of endeavor. A laborer
thought the same thoughts that a governor might think. Uncertainty
added zest to every day's life.
  
 
  The Orthan had come to question the sole devotion of the individual to
the Horde to the exclusion of all other interests. What, he wondered,
would one new world—or a hundred—populated by the Hordes add to
the progress of humanity? For a hundred thousand years the Orthan
civilization had remained static, its energies directed into certain
well-defined channels. They were mindless bees maintaining their vast
mechanical hives.
  
 
  There was that moment on the brink of the Grand Canyon when Ellen had
caught his arm breathlessly at all the beauty spread away there beneath
them. There were mornings in the desert when the sun painted in lurid
red the peaks above the harsh black-and-whites of the sagebrush and
cactus slopes. There was the little boy, his body burning with fever,
who nestled trustingly against his tense man's body and slept—the son
of Ellen and the man he had destroyed.
  
 
  Thig groaned. He was a weakling to let sentimentality so get the better
of his judgment. He would go now to the space ship and urge them to
blast off for Ortha. He sprang off the porch and strode away down the
road toward the beach.
  
 
  The children ran to him; wanted to go along. He sent them away harshly
but they smiled and waved their brown little hands. Ellen came to the
door and called after him.
  
 
  "Hurry home, dear," she said. "I'll have a bite ready in about an hour."
  
 
  He dared not say anything, for his voice would have broken and she
would have known something was wrong. She was a very wise sort of
person when something was troubling him. He waved his stubby paw of a
hand to show that he had heard, and blindly hurried toward the Sound.
  
 
  Oddly enough, as he hurried away along the narrow path through the
autumn woods, his mind busied itself with a new epic of the west that
lived no longer. He mentally titled it: "Rustlers' Riot" and blocked
in the outlines of his plot. One section of his brain was that of the
careless author of gunslinging yarns, a section that seemed to be
sapping the life from his own brain. He knew that the story would never
be written, but he toyed with the idea.
  
 
  So far had Thig the emotionless, robot-being from Ortha drifted from
the unquestioning worship of the Horde!
  
