 
  RETIEF OF THE RED-TAPE MOUNTAIN
  
 
  by KEITH LAUMER
  
 
  Retief knew the importance of sealed
   
  orders—and the need to keep them that way!
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Worlds of If Science Fiction, May 1962.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  "It's true," Consul Passwyn said, "I requested assignment as principal
officer at a small post. But I had in mind one of those charming resort
worlds, with only an occasional visa problem, or perhaps a distressed
spaceman or two a year. Instead, I'm zoo-keeper to these confounded
settlers. And not for one world, mind you, but eight!" He stared glumly
at Vice-Consul Retief.
  
 
  "Still," Retief said, "it gives an opportunity to travel—"
  
 
  "Travel!" the consul barked. "I hate travel. Here in this backwater
system particularly—" He paused, blinked at Retief and cleared his
throat. "Not that a bit of travel isn't an excellent thing for a
junior officer. Marvelous experience."
  
 
  He turned to the wall-screen and pressed a button. A system triagram
appeared: eight luminous green dots arranged around a larger disk
representing the primary. He picked up a pointer, indicating the
innermost planet.
  
 
  "The situation on Adobe is nearing crisis. The confounded settlers—a
mere handful of them—have managed, as usual, to stir up trouble with
an intelligent indigenous life form, the Jaq. I can't think why they
bother, merely for a few oases among the endless deserts. However I
have, at last, received authorization from Sector Headquarters to
take certain action." He swung back to face Retief. "I'm sending you
in to handle the situation, Retief—under sealed orders." He picked
up a fat buff envelope. "A pity they didn't see fit to order the
Terrestrial settlers out weeks ago, as I suggested. Now it is too late.
I'm expected to produce a miracle—a rapprochement between Terrestrial
and Adoban and a division of territory. It's idiotic. However, failure
would look very bad in my record, so I shall expect results."
  
 
  He passed the buff envelope across to Retief.
  
 
  "I understood that Adobe was uninhabited," Retief said, "until the
Terrestrial settlers arrived."
  
 
  "Apparently, that was an erroneous impression." Passwyn fixed Retief
with a watery eye. "You'll follow your instructions to the letter. In a
delicate situation such as this, there must be no impulsive, impromptu
element introduced. This approach has been worked out in detail at
Sector. You need merely implement it. Is that entirely clear?"
  
 
  "Has anyone at Headquarters ever visited Adobe?"
  
 
  "Of course not. They all hate travel. If there are no other questions,
you'd best be on your way. The mail run departs the dome in less than
an hour."
  
 
  "What's this native life form like?" Retief asked, getting to his feet.
  
 
  "When you get back," said Passwyn, "you tell me."
  
