Mury smiled with supernal calm. "We won't be here long," he said.
Then, to quiet Ryd's fears, he went on: "The central control panel and
the three local switches inside, between, and outside the locks are
on the circuit in that order. Unless the locks were closed from the
switch just beyond the inner lock, that lock will open when the central
control panel is cut out in preparation for lifting."
  
 
  Almost as he paused and drew breath, a light sprang out over the switch
he had closed and the inner lock swung silently free of its gaskets.
Ryd felt a trembling relief; but Mury's voice lashed out like a whip as
he slipped cat-like into the passage.
  
 
  "Keep him covered. Back out of the lock."
  
 
  Ryd backed—the white, tense face of the prisoner holding his own
nervous gaze—and, almost out of the lock, stumbled over the metal
pressure rings. And the gun was out of his unsure grip, clattering
somewhere near his slithering feet, as he started to fall.
  
 
  He saw the guardsman hurl himself forward; then he was flung spinning,
back against the engine-room door. In a flash, even as he struggled
to keep on his feet, he saw the man in the airlock coming up from a
crouch, shifting the pistol in his right hand to reach its firing
lever; he saw Mury sidestep swiftly and throw the master control switch
outside.
  
 
  The inner lock whooshed shut, barely missing Ryd. At the same instant,
the flame gun lighted locks and passage with one terrific flash, and a
scorched, discolored spot appeared on the beveled metal of the opposite
lock a foot from Mury's right shoulder.
  
 
  "You damned clumsy little fool—" said Mury with soft intensity. Then,
while the air around the metal walls still buzzed and snapped with
blue sparks, he whirled and went up the control-room gangway in two
quick bounds. Even as he went the flame gun thundered again in the
starboard airlock.
  
 
  Mury was just in time, for the pilot had been about to flash "Ready" to
the Communications Tower when the explosions had given him pause. But
the latter and his two companions were neither ready nor armed; clamped
in their seats at the controls, already marked, they were helpless in
an instant before the leveled menace of the gun. And the imprisoned
guardsman, having wasted most of his charges, was helpless, too, in his
little cell of steel.
  
 
  "It's been tried before," said one of the masked men. He had a blond,
youthful thatch and a smooth healthy face below the mask, together with
an astrogator's triangled stars which made him
   
   ex officio
   
  the brains
of the vessel. "Stealing a ship—it can't be done any more."
  
 
  "It's been done again," said Mury grimly. "And you don't know the half
of it. But—you will. I'll need you. As for your friends—" The gun
muzzle shifted slightly to indicate the pilot and the engineer. "Out of
those clamps. You're going to ride this out in the portside airlock."
  
 
  He had to repeat the command, in tones that snapped with menace, before
they started with fumbling, rebellious hands to strip their armor from
themselves. The burly engineer was muttering phrases of obscene fervor;
the weedy young pilot was wild-eyed. The blond astrogator, sitting
still masked and apparently unmoved, demanded:
  
 
  "What do you think you're trying to do?"
  
 
  "What do
   
   you
   
  think?" demanded Mury in return. "I'm taking the ship
into space. On schedule and on course—to meet the power shell." The
flame gun moved with a jerk. "And as for you—what's your name?"
  
 
  "Yet Arliess."
  
 
  "You want to make the trip alive, don't you, Yet Arliess?"
  
 
  The young astrogator stared at him and at the gun through masking
goggles; then he sank into his seat with a slow shudder. "Why, yes," he
said as if in wonder, "I do."
  
 
 
  III
  
 
 
   Shahrazad
   
  drove steadily forward into deep space, vibrating slightly
to the tremendous thrust of her powerful engines. The small, cramped
cabin was stiflingly hot to the three armored men who sat before its
banked dials, watching their steady needles.
  
 
  Ryd had blacked out, darkness washing into his eyes and consciousness
draining from his head, as the space ship had pitched out into
emptiness over the end of the runway on Pi Mesa and Mury had cut in the
maindrive. Pressure greater than anything he had ever felt had crushed
him; his voice had been snatched from his lips by those terrible forces
and lost beneath the opening thunder of the three-inch tubes. Up and
up, while the acceleration climbed to seven gravities—and Ryd had lost
every sensation, not to regain them until Earth was dropping away under
the towship's keel.
  
 
  A single gravity held them back and down in the tilted seats, and the
control panels seemed to curve half above them, their banks of lights
confused with the stars coldly through the great nose window. In the
control room all sounds impinged on a background made up of the insect
hum of air-purifiers, the almost supersonic whine of the fast-spinning
gyroscopes somewhere behind them, the deep continuous growl of the
engines.
  
 
  Mury's voice broke through that steady murmur, coming from Ryd's right.
"You can unfasten your anticlamps, Ryd," he said dryly. "That doesn't
mean you," to the young navigator, on his other hand as he sat in
the pilot's seat with his pressure-clamps thrown back and his gloved
hands free to caress the multiplex controls before him. Clipped to the
sloping dash at his left elbow was a loaded flame gun.
  
 
  Ryd emerged, with much bungling, from his padded clamps, and shook his
head groggily as he ran a hand through his slightly thinning hair. He
ventured shakily, "Where are we?"
  
 
  Mury smiled slightly. "Only our astrogator," he indicated Arliess,
still masked and fettered, "can tell you that with precision. I
understand only enough of astrogational practice to make sure that he
is holding to the course outlined on the log. For that matter ... he
is an intelligent young man and if he were not blinded by notions of
duty to an outworn system.... We are now somewhere near the orbit of
the Moon. Isn't that right, Arliess?"
  
 
  The other did not seem to hear; he sat staring blindly before him
through his goggles at the slowly-changing chart, where cryptic lights
burned, some moving like glowing paramecia along fine-traced luminous
tracks.
  
 
  Mury too sat silent and immobile for a minute or more. Then, abruptly,
he inclined his universal chair far to the right, and his long frame
seemed to tense oddly. His finger stabbed out one of the sparks of
light.
  
 
  "What's that, Arliess?"
  
 
  The astrogator broke his silence. "A ship."
  
 
  "I know that well enough. What ship?"
  
 
  "I supposed you had examined the log. It would have told you that
that's the liner
   
   Alborak
   
  , out of Aeropolis with a diplomatic mission
for Mars."
  
 
  Mury shook his head regretfully. "That won't wash, Arliess. Even if you
suppose her off course, no liner aspace ever carried a tenth of that
drive."
  
 
  "I don't know what you're talking about," said Arliess. But his voice
was raw and unsteady.
  
 
  "I'm talking about this. That ship is a warship, and it's looking for
us—will intercept us inside of twenty minutes at the most!"
  
