  Saboteur of Space
  
 
  By ROBERT ABERNATHY
  
 
  Fresh power was coming to Earth, energy
   
  which would bring life to a dying planet.
   
  Only two men stood in its way, one a cowardly
   
  rat, the other a murderous martyr; both pawns
   
  in a cosmic game where death moved his chessmen
   
  of fate—and even the winner would lose.
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Planet Stories Spring 1944.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  Ryd Randl stood, slouching a little, in the darkened footway, and
watched the sky over Dynamopolis come alive with searchlights. The
shuttered glow of Burshis' Stumble Inn was only a few yards off to his
right, but even that lodestone failed before the novel interest of a
ship about to ground in the one-time Port of Ten Thousand Ships.
  
 
  Now he made out the flicker of the braking drive a mile or so
overhead, and presently soft motor thunder came down to blanket the
almost lightless city with sound. A beam swayed through the throbbing
darkness, caught the descending ship and held it, a small gleaming
minnow slipping through the dark heavens. A faint glow rose from Pi
Mesa, where the spaceport lay above the city, as a runway lighted
up—draining the last reserves of the city's stored power, but draining
them gladly now that, in those autumn days of the historic year 819,
relief was in sight.
  
 
  Ryd shrugged limply; the play was meaningless to him. He turned to
shuffle down the inviting ramp into the glowing interior of Burshis'
dive.
  
 
  The place was crowded with men and smoke. Perhaps half the former were
asleep, on tables or on the floor; but for the few places like Burshis'
which were still open under the power shortage, many would have frozen,
these days, in the chilly nights at fourteen thousand feet. For
Dynamopolis sprawled atop the world, now as in the old days when it had
been built to be the power center of North America.
  
 
  The rocket blasts crescendoed and died up on Pi Mesa as Ryd wedged
himself with difficulty into the group along the bar. If anyone
recognized him, they showed it only by looking fixedly at something
else. Only Burshis Yuns kept his static smile and nodded with
surprising friendliness at Ryd's pinched, old-young face.
  
 
  Ryd was startled by the nod. Burshis finished serving another customer
and maneuvered down the stained chrome-and-synthyl bar. Ryd was
heartened.
  
 
  "Say, Burshis," he started nervously, as the bulky man halted with his
back to him. But Burshis turned, still smiling, shaking his head so
that his jowls quivered.
  
 
  "No loans," he said flatly. "But just one on the house, Ryd."
  
 
  The drink almost spilled itself in Ryd's hand. Clutching it
convulsively, he made his eyes narrow and said suspiciously, "What you
setting 'em up for, Burshis? It's the first time since—"
  
 
  Burshis' smile stayed put. He said affably, "Didn't you hear that ship
that just came down on the Mesa? That was the ship from Mars—the
escort they were sending with the power cylinder. The power's coming
in again." He turned to greet a coin-tapping newcomer, added over his
shoulder: "You know what that means, Ryd. Some life around here again.
Jobs for all the bums in this town—even for you."
  
 
  He left Ryd frowning, thinking fuzzily. A warming gulp seemed to clear
his head. Jobs. So they thought they could put that over on him again,
huh? Well, he'd show them. He was smart; he was a damn good helio
man—no, that had been ten years ago. But now he was out of the habit
of working, anyway. No job for Ryd Randl. They gave him one once and
then took it away. He drank still more deeply.
  
 
  The man on Ryd's immediate right leaned toward him. He laid a hand on
his arm, gripping it hard, and said quietly: "So you're Ryd Randl."
  
