Ryd had a bad moment before he saw that the face wasn't that of any
plain-clothes man he knew. For that matter, it didn't belong to anybody
he had ever known—an odd, big-boned face, strikingly ugly, with a
beak-nose that was yet not too large for the hard jaw or too bleak for
the thin mouth below it. An expensive transparent hat slanted over the
face, and from its iridescent shadows gleamed eyes that were alert and
almost frighteningly black. Ryd noted that the man wore a dark-gray
cellotex of a sort rarely seen in joints like Burshis'.
  
 
  "Suppose we step outside, Ryd. I'd like to talk to you."
  
 
  "What's the idea?" demanded Ryd, his small store of natural courage
floated to the top by alcohol.
  
 
  The other seemed to realize that he was getting ahead of himself.
He leaned back slightly, drew a deep breath, and said slowly and
distinctly. "Would you care to make some money, my friend?"
  
 
  "
   
   Huh?
   
  Why, yeh—I guess so—"
  
 
  "Then come with me." The hand still on his arm was insistent. In his
daze, Ryd let himself be drawn away from the bar into the sluggish
crowd; then he suddenly remembered his unfinished drink, and made
frantic gestures. Deliberately misunderstanding, the tall stranger
fumbled briefly, tossed a coin on the counter-top, and hustled Ryd out,
past the blue-and-gold-lit
   
   meloderge
   
  that was softly pouring out its
endlessly changing music, through the swinging doors into the dark.
  
 
  Outside, between lightless buildings, the still cold closed in on
them. They kept walking—so fast that Ryd began to lose his breath,
long-accustomed though his lungs were to the high, thin air.
  
 
  "So you're Ryd Randl," repeated the stranger after a moment's silence.
"I might have known you. But I'd almost given up finding you tonight."
  
 
  Ryd tried feebly to wrench free, stumbled. "Look," he gasped. "If
you're a cop, say so!"
  
 
  The other laughed shortly. "No. I'm just a man about to offer you a
chance. For a come-back, Ryd—a chance to live again.... My name—you
can call me Mury."
  
 
  Ryd was voiceless. Something seemed increasingly ominous about the
tall, spare man at his side. He wished himself back in Burshis' with
his first free drink in a month. The thought of it brought tears to his
eyes.
  
 
  "How long have you been out of a job, Ryd?"
  
 
  "Nine ... ten years. Say, what's it to you?"
  
 
  "And why, Ryd?"
  
 
  "Why...? Look, mister, I was a helio operator." He hunched his narrow
shoulders and spread his hands in an habitual gesture of defeat. "Damn
good one, too—I was a foreman ten years ago. But I don't have the
physique for Mars—I might just have made it
   
   then
   
  , but I thought the
plant was going to open again and—"
  
 
  And that was it. The almost airless Martian sky, with its burning
actinic rays, is so favorable for the use of the helio-dynamic engine.
And after the middle of the eighth century, robot labor gave Mars its
full economic independence—and domination. For power is—power; and
there is the Restriction Act to keep men on Earth even if more than two
in ten could live healthily on the outer world.
  
 
  "Ten years ago," Mury nodded as if satisfied. "That must have been the
Power Company of North America—the main plant by Dynamopolis itself,
that shut down in December, 809. They were the last to close down
outside the military bases in the Kun Lun."
  
 
  Ryd was pacing beside him now. He felt a queer upsurge of confidence in
this strange man; for too long he had met no sympathy and all too few
men who talked his language. He burst out: "They wouldn't take me, damn
them! Said my record wasn't good enough for them. That is, I didn't
have a drag with any of the Poligerents."
  
 
  "I know all about your record," said Mury softly.
  
 
  Ryd's suspicions came back abruptly, and he reverted to his old
kicked-dog manner. "How do you know? And what's it to you?"
  
