It was still musty in the narrow passage, between the closely-pressing
walls, beneath the great tubes and cable sheathings that fluted the
ceiling overhead. A stairway spiraled up on the right to the control
cupola somewhere overhead; even in the airtight gallery a thin film
of dust lay on every step. Up there were the meters and switches of
the disused terminal facilities of the spaceport; beyond the metal
door marked CAUTION, just beyond the stairwell, lay the long runway
down which the ships of space had glided to be serviced, refueled, and
launched into the sky once more by now dormant machines.
  
 
  "Wait," said Mury succinctly; he vanished up the spiral stair, his
long legs taking two steps at a time. After an aching minute's silence,
he was back. All was clear as seen from the turret-windows overhead.
  
 
  They emerged in shadow, hugging the wall. Almost a quarter of a mile to
the right the megalith of the Communications Tower, crowned with many
lights where the signal-men sat godlike in its summit. Its floodlights
shed a vast oval of light out over the mesa, where the mile-long
runways—no longer polished mirror-like as in the days of Dynamopolis'
glory—stretched away into the darkness of the table land. A handful
of odd ships—mere remnant of the hundreds that Pi Mesa port had
berthed—huddled under the solenoid wickets, as if driven together by
the chill of the thin, knife-like wind that blew across the mesa.
  
 
  As the two paced slowly across the runways, Ryd had a sense of
protective isolation in the vast impersonality of the spaceport.
Surely, in this Titanic desolation of metal slabs and flat-roofed
buildings, dominated by the one great tower, total insignificance must
mean safety for them.
  
 
  And indeed no guard challenged them. There were armed men watching
for all intruders out on the desert beyond the runways, but once
inside, Ryd's borrowed blue seemed to serve as passport enough.
Nonetheless, the passport's knees were shaking when they stood at last,
inconspicuous still, at the shadowed base of the Communications Tower.
  
 
  Not far off, a half-dozen dignitaries, huddled close together in the
midst of these Cyclopean man-made things that dwarfed their policies,
their principles and ambitions, stood talking rather nervously with two
officers, aristocratically gaudy in the scarlet of the Martian Fleet.
Blue-clad guardsmen of Earth watched from a distance—watched boredly
enough.
  
 
  And out on the steel-stripped tarmac, under the solenoid of Number
Two Runway, lay a towship, backed like a stegosaur with its massive
magnets—the
   
   Shahrazad
   
  , panting like a dragon amid rolling clouds of
steam. She was plainly ready to go into space. The bottom dropped out
of Ryd's stomach before he realized that a warning at least must be
sounded before the ship could lift. But that might come any moment now.
  
 
  "Relax," said Mury in a low voice. "Nothing's gone wrong. We'll be
aboard the
   
   Shahrazad
   
  when she lifts." For a moment his black eyes
shifted, hardening, toward Runway Four. The Martian warship lay there
beyond the solenoid, a spiteful hundred-foot swordfish of steel, with
blind gunvalves, row on row, along its sleek sides and turret-blisters.
It had not yet been tugged onto the turntable; it could not be leaving
again very soon, though Earth weight was undoubtedly incommoding
its crew. About it a few figures stood that were stiffly erect and
immobile, as tall as tall men. From head to toe they were scarlet.
  
 
  "Robots!" gasped Ryd, clutching his companion's arm convulsively.
"Martian soldier robots!"
  
 
  "They're unarmed, harmless. They aren't your police with built-in
weapons. Only the humans are dangerous. But we've got to move. For
God's sake, take it easy."
  
 
  Ryd licked dry lips. "Are we going—out into space?"
  
 
  "Where else?" said Mury.
  
