All at once, Mury came to a stop, and swung around to face him
squarely, hard eyes compelling. They were on an overpass, not far
from where the vast, almost wholly deserted offices of the Triplanet
Freighting Company sprawled over a square mile of city. A half-smile
twisted Mury's thin lips.
  
 
  "Don't misunderstand me, Ryd—you mean nothing at all to me as an
individual. But you're one of a vast mass of men for whom I am
working—the billions caught in the net of a corrupt government and
sold as an economic prey to the ruthless masters of Mars. This, after
they've borne all the hardships of a year of embargo, have offered
their hands willingly to the rebuilding of decadent Earth, only to
be refused by the weak leaders who can neither defy the enemy nor
capitulate frankly to him."
  
 
  Ryd was dazed. His mind had never been constructed to cope with such
ideas and the past few years had not improved its capabilities. "Are
you talking about the power cylinder?" he demanded blurrily.
  
 
  Mury cast a glance toward the Milky Way as if to descry the Martian
cargo projectile somewhere up among its countless lights. He said
simply, "Yes."
  
 
  "I don't get it," mumbled Ryd, frowning. He found words that he had
heard somewhere a day or so before, in some bar or flophouse: "The
power cylinder is going to be the salvation of Earth. It's a shot in
the arm—no, right in the heart of Earth industry, here in Dynamopolis.
It will turn the wheels and light the cities and—"
  
 
  "To hell with that!" snapped Mury, suddenly savage. His hands came up
slightly, the fingers flexing; then dropped back to his sides. "Don't
you know you're repeating damnable lies?"
  
 
  Ryd could only stare, cringing and bewildered. Mury went on with a
passion shocking after his smooth calm:
  
 
  "The power shell is aid, yes—but with what a price! It's the thirty
pieces of silver for which the venal fools who rule our nations have
sold the whole planet to Mars. Because they lack the courage and
vision to retool Earth's plants and factories for the inescapable
conflict, they're selling us out—making Earth, the first home of man,
a colony of the Red Planet. Do you know what Earth is to the great
Martian land-owners?
   
   Do you?
   
  " He paused out of breath; then finished
venomously, "Earth is a great pool of labor ready to be tapped, cheaper
than robots—cheap as
   
   slaves
   
  !"
  
 
  "What about it?" gulped Ryd, drawing away from the fanatic. "What you
want
   
   me
   
  to do about it?"
  
 
  Mury took a deep breath and straightened his shoulders. His face was
once more bleakly impassive; only the mouth was an ugly line. "We're
going to do something about it, you and I. Tonight. Now."
  
 
  Ryd was nearly sober. And wholly terrified. He got out chokingly,
"What's that mean?"
  
 
  "The power shell—isn't coming in as planned."
  
 
  "You can't do that."
  
 
  "
   
   We
   
  can," said Mury with a heavy accent on the first word. "And there
are fifty thousand credits in it for you, Ryd. Are you with us?"
  
 
  Suspicion was chill reality now in Ryd's mind. And he knew one thing
certainly—if he refused now to accompany Mury, he would be killed, by
this man or another of his kind. For the secret power known only as
   
   We
   
  never took chances. Whispered-of, terrible, and world-embracing,
desperate upshot of the times in its principles of dynamitism, war, and
panclasm—that was
   
   We
   
  .
  
 
  The question hung in the air for a long moment. Then Ryd, with
an effort, said, "Sure." A moment later it struck him that the
monosyllabic assent was suspicious; he added quickly, "I got nothing to
lose, see?" It was, he realized, the cold truth.
  
 
  "You won't lose," said Mury. He seemed to relax. But the menace with
which he had clothed himself clung, as he turned back on the way they
had come.
  
 
  Ryd followed dog-like, his feet in their worn shoes moving without his
volition. He was frightened. Out of his very fright came a longing to
placate Mury, assure him that he, Ryd, was on the same side whatever
happened....
  
 
  After some steps he stole a sidelong glance at his tall companion, and
whined, "Where ... where we going now?"
  
 
  Mury paused in his long stride, removed a hand from a pocket of the
gray topcoat that wrapped him as in somber thoughts. Wordlessly, he
pointed as Ryd had known he would—toward where a pale man-made dawn
seemed breaking over Pi Mesa.
  
 
 
  II
  
 
  "One blow for freedom!" said Mury with caught breath. His voice fell
upon air scarcely stilled since the sodden thump of the blow that had
killed the guard.
  
 
  The body lay between them, face down on the graveled way in the inky
moon-shadow. On one side Pi Mesa stretched away two hundred yards to
drop sharply into the night; on the other was the unlighted mass of the
long, continuous, low buildings that housed now unused fuel pumps and
servicing equipment. Looking down at the dead huddle at his feet, a
little stunned by the reality of this, Ryd knew that he was in it now.
He was caught in the machinery.
  
 
  Mury hefted the length of steel in his hand once more, as if testing
the weight that had crushed a man's skull so easily. Then, with a short
wrist-flip, he sent it flying into the dried weeds which had over-grown
the aero field on the mesa's rim during the summer months after State
order had grounded all fliers in America.
  
 
  "All right, Ryd," he said coolly. "Trade clothes with this fellow. I've
brought you this far—you're taking me the rest of the way."
  
 
  The rest of the way.
  
 
  Ryd was still panting, and his side was paining from the strenuous
exertion of the long climb up the side of the mountain, far from the
guarded highway. His fingers, numbed by the cold of the high, thin air,
shook as he knelt and fumbled with the zippers of the dead guard's
uniform. The belted gun, however, was heavy and oddly comforting as
he clumsily buckled it about his hips. He knew enough of weapons
to recognize this as, not the usual paralyzer, but a flame pistol,
powerful and deadly. He let his hand linger on its butt; then strong
fingers tightened on his bony wrist, and he looked up with a start into
the sardonic black eyes of the Panclast.
  
 
  "No use now for firearms," said Mury. "All the guns we could carry
wouldn't help us if we were caught out there. That gun is just a
stage property for the little play we're going to give in about three
minutes—when you'll act a guardsman escorting me, a Poligerent of
Dynamopolis, aboard the towship
   
   Shahrazad
   
  ."
  
 
  For a moment Ryd felt relief—he had hazily imagined that Mury's hatred
of Mars and all things Martian might have led him to try to sabotage
the Martian warship which lay somewhere on the runways beyond the long,
low buildings, and which would be closely guarded. But the towship
would also be guarded ... he shivered in the cold, dry night air.
  
 
  Mury had melted into the shadow a few yards away. There was a light
scraping, then a green flame sputtered, briefly lighting up his hands
and face, and narrowing at once to a thin, singing needle of light.
He had turned a pocket electron torch against the lock-mechanism of a
small, disused metal door.
  
 
 
 
  Ryd watched in painful suspense. There was no sound in his ears save
for the hard, dry shrilling of the ray as it bit into the steel. It
seemed to be crying:
   
   run, run
   
  —but he remembered the power that knew
how to punish better than the law, and stood still, shivering.
  
 
  The lock gave way and the door slipped aside. A light went on inside,
and Ryd's heart stopped, backfired, and started again, raggedly. The
same automatic mechanism that had turned the lights on had started the
air-fresher, which picked up speed with a soft whine, sweeping out the
long-stale atmosphere. Mury motioned to Ryd to follow him in.
  
