The official-looking individual in the expensive topcoat and sport hat
had reached the starboard airlock of the towship before anyone thought
to question his authorization, escorted as he was by a blue-uniformed
guardsman. When another sentry, pacing between runways a hundred yards
from the squat space vessel, paused to wonder, it was—as it came
about—just a little too late.
  
 
  The guard turned and swung briskly off to intercept the oddly-behaving
pair, hand crowding the butt of his pistol, for he was growing
uneasy. His alarm mounted rapidly, till he nearly sprained an ankle
in sprinting across the last of the two intervening runways, between
the solenoid wickets. Those metal arches, crowding one on the other
in perspective, formed a tunnel that effectively shielded the
   
   Shahrazad's
   
  airlocks from more distant view; the gang of notables
attracted by the occasion was already being shepherded back to safety
by the Communications guards, whose attention was thus well taken up.
  
 
  The slight man in guardsman's blue glanced over his shoulder and
vanished abruptly into the circular lock. His companion wheeled on the
topmost step, looking down with some irritation on his unhandsome face,
but with no apparent doubt of his command of the situation.
  
 
  "Yes?" he inquired frostily.
  
 
  "What goes on here?" snapped the guard, frowning at the tall figure
silhouetted against the glow in the airlock. "The crew's signaled all
aboard and the ship lifts in two minutes. You ought to be—"
  
 
  "I am Semul Mury, Poligerent for the City of Dynamopolis," interrupted
the tall man with asperity. "The City is naturally interested in the
delivery of the power which will revivify our industries." He paused,
sighed, shifting his weight to the next lower step of the gangway. "I
suppose you'll want to re-check my credentials?"
  
 
  The guard was somewhat confused; a Poligerent, in ninth-century
bureaucracy, was a force to be reckoned with. But he contrived to nod
with an appearance of brusqueness.
  
 
  Fully expecting official papers, signed and garnished with all the
pompous seals of a chartered metropolis, the guard was dazed to receive
instead a terrific left-handed foul to the pit of the stomach, and as
he reeled dizzily, retching and clawing for his gun, to find that gun
no longer holstered but in the hand of the self-styled Poligerent,
pointing at its licensed owner.
  
 
  "I think," Mury said quietly, flexing his left wrist with care the
while his right held the gun steady, "that you'd better come aboard
with us."
  
 
  The guard was not more cowardly than the run of politically-appointed
civic guardsmen. But a flame gun kills more frightfully than the
ancient electric chair. He complied, grasping the railing with both
hands as he stumbled before Mury up the gangway—for he was still very
sick indeed, wholly apart from his bewilderment, which was enormous.
  
 
  Above, Ryd Randl waited in the lock, flattened against the curved
wall, white and jittering. The inner door was shut, an impenetrable
countersunk mirror of metal.
  
 
  "Cover him, Ryd," ordered Mury flatly. In obedience Ryd lugged out
the heavy flame pistol and pointed it; his finger was dangerously
tremulous on the firing lever. He moistened his lips to voice his
fears; but Mury, pocketing the other gun, threw the three-way switch on
the side panel, the switch that should have controlled the inner lock.
  
 
  Nothing happened.
  
 
  "Oh, God. We're caught. We're trapped!" The outer gangway had slid up,
the lock wheezed shut, forming an impenetrable crypt of niosteel.
  
