They wouldn't even know, he told himself, squirming through the
emergency exit into the engine room, and sealing it after him. And they
wouldn't understand if they did. Pink mist swirled about him. Toxia
gas. Shano coughed.
  
 
  He squinted around at the massive, incomprehensible machinery. The guts
of the space ship.
  
 
  Then he saw the shattered, gold-gleaming cylinder, gas hissing from
a fine nozzle, and filaments glowing bluish inside it, still working
away. He saw five heavy Carrsteel rods hanging useless, on melted-down
pins, and the slots their pronged ends hooked into. He looked at his
hands, and shook his head.
  
 
  "One try," he said to himself. "One try, Shano. One important thing in
your life. Here's your opportunity. The toxia gas will get you. It'll
kill you at this concentration. But you'll last for maybe twelve hours.
Another man wouldn't last a minute. Another man's lungs aren't clogged
with Juno gum."
  
 
  He grasped a rod and lifted it, sweating under the weight, and slipped
the forked end into its slot. Going home to die, he thought. Well,
maybe not going home. Couldn't remember what Earth looked like anyway.
  
 
  What was that again? Oh yeah—just lift them up, and when they drop
off, lift them up again.
  
 
  Shano coughed, and lifted the heavy rods into position. One jerked back
suddenly and smoothly, and something went, "Pop, pop," behind him and
machinery whirred. He lifted the rod and slipped it back on. Another
jerked, pulled open a large valve, and dropped off. Shano bent, and
lifted, coughing and coughing. He forgot what he was doing, mind blank
the way it went when he worked. Just rhythmically fell into the job,
the way a laborer does. He waited for a rod to slip and fall, then
lifted it up and slipped it in place, skin sweating, joints shooting
pain along his limbs. He heard the machinery working. He heard the
high, howling whine of cosmic jets. He, Shano, was making the machinery
go. He was running the cosmic drive.
  
 
  A bell clanged somewhere. "Engine room! Engine room! We're under way!
What happened?"
  
 
  Silence, while Shano coughed and made the machinery go, thinking about
the Earth he hadn't seen for many years.
  
 
  "Captain!" the speaker bawled. "There's a man in there! Working the
valve rods! Somebody is in the engine room and the gas isn't...."
  
 
  Shano grinned, feeling good. Feeling happy. Lifting the heavy steel
rods, driving the ship. Keeping the jets screaming and hurtling the
liner
   
   Stardust
   
  toward Venus. He wondered if they'd found Rourke yet.
If he could keep going for twelve hours they would get to Venus. After
that....
  
 
  "Home," he coughed. "Hell! Who wants to go home?"
  
 
  He plucked at his agitated chest, thinking of a whole damn Uranian
fleet swooping down on a spot in space, expecting to find a crippled
ship there with a spy inside it. And finding nothing. Because of Shano.
A useless old man.
  
 
  Coughing came out all mixed up with laughing.
  
 
