Captain Menthlo, a silver-mustached Jupiterian, broad, huge, yet
crushable as a beetle, talked while his hands manipulated a panel of
studs in the control room. The pilot, his back encased in leather, sat
in a bucket seat before him, listening into earphones.
  
 
  "Surprised to learn of a passenger aboard," the captain said, glancing
briefly sideways. "You're entitled to know of the danger ahead." He
flicked a final stud, spoke to the pilot and at last turned a serious,
squared face to Shano. "Old man," he said. "There's a Uranian fleet out
there. We don't know how many ships in this sector. Flight twenty-one,
which just landed, had a skirmish with one, and got away. We may not be
so lucky. You know how these Uranian devils are."
  
 
  Shano coughed, and wiped his mouth. "Dirty devils," he said. "I was
driv' off the planet once, before this war started. I know things
about them Uranian devils. Heard them in the mines around. Hears
things, a laborer does."
  
 
  The captain seemed for the first time to realize the social status of
his lone passenger, and he became a little gruff.
  
 
  "Want you to sign this waiver, saying you're traveling at your own
risk. We'll expect you to keep to your cabin as much as possible.
When the trouble comes we can't bother with a passenger. In a few
hours we'll shut down the ship entirely, and every mechanical device
aboard, to try to avoid detection." His mustaches rose like two spears
from each side of his squared nose as his face changed to an alert
watchfulness. "Going home, eh?" he said. "You've knocked around some,
by the looks of you. Pluto, from the sound of that cough."
  
 
  Shano scrawled his signature on the waiver. "Yeah," he said. "Pluto.
Where a man's lungs fights gas." He blinked watery eyes. "Captain,
what's a notched jaw mean to you?"
  
 
  "Well, old man," the captain grasped Shano's shoulder and turned him
around. "It means somebody cut himself, shaving. You stick tight to
your cabin." He nodded curtly and indicated the door.
  
 
  Descending the companionway to the next deck Shano observed the
nick-jawed lieutenant staring out the viewport, apparently idling. The
man turned and gripped Shano's thin arm.
  
 
  "A light?" he said, tapping a cigarette. Shano produced a lighter
disk and the chunky man puffed. He was an Earthman and his jaw seemed
cut with a knife, notched like a piece of wood. Across the breast of
his tunic was a purple band, with the name
   
   Rourke
   
  . "Why are you so
anxious to get aboard, old man?" He searched Shano's face. "There's
trouble ahead, you know."
  
 
  Shano coughed, wracking his body, as forgotten memories stirred
sluggishly in his mind. "Yup," he said, and jerked free and stumbled
down the steel deck.
  
 
  In his cabin he lay on the bunk, lighted a cigarette and smoked,
coughing and staring at the rivet-studded bulkhead. The slow movement
of his mind resolved into a struggle, one idea groping for the other.
  
 
  What were the things he'd heard about nicked jaws? And where had
he heard them? Digging ore on Pluto; talk in the pits? Secretive
suspicions voiced in smoke-laden saloons of Mars? In the labor gangs of
Uranus? Where? Shano smoked and didn't know. But he knew there was a
rumor, and that it was the talk of ignorant men. The captain had evaded
it. Shano smoked and coughed and stared at the steel bulkhead and
waited.
  
