A tremendous grinding sounded amid-ships. Loud rending noises of
protesting metal. The ship bucked like a hooked fish. Then it was
still. An empty clank echoed through the hull. The captain's voice
came, almost yelling. "Emergency! Emergency! Back to your posts. Engine
room—report! Engine room—"
  
 
  Shano picked himself off the deck, his mind muddled. He coughed and
put a cigarette to his lips, flicking a lighter disk jerkily from his
pocket. He blew smoke from his nostrils and heard the renewed pounding
of feet. What was going on now?
  
 
  "Engine room! Your screen is dead! Switch onto loud-speaker system.
Engine room!"
  
 
  Giddily, Shano heard clicks and rasps and then a thick voice, atom
motors whirring in the background.
  
 
  "Selector's gone, sir. Direct hit. Heat ray through the deck plates.
We've sealed the tear. Might repair selector in five hours."
  
 
  Shano coughed and sent a burst of smoke from his mouth.
  
 
  "Captain!" A rasping, grating sound ensued from a grill above Shano's
head, then a disconnected voice. "Get the men out of there. It's
useless. Hurry it up!" A series of clicks and the heavy voice of the
chief engineer. "Captain! Somebody's smashed the selector chamber.
Engine room's full of toxia gas!"
  
 
  Shano jumped. He prodded the body on the deck with his toe.
  
 
  The
   
   Stardust's
   
  mechanical voice bellowed: "Engine room!" It
reproduced the captain's heavy breathing and his tired voice. "We're
about midway to Venus," it said. "There were two ships and we drove
them off. But there may be others. They'll be coming back. They know
we've been hit. We have to get away fast!"
  
 
  Shano could see the captain in his mind, worried, squared face slick
with moisture. Shouting into a control room mike. Trying to find out
what the matter was with his space ship.
  
 
  The engineer's answer came from the grill. "Impossible, sir. Engine
room full of toxia gas. Not a suit aboard prepared to withstand it. And
we have to keep it in there. Selector filaments won't function without
the gas. Our only chance was to put a man in the engine room to repair
the broken selector valve rods or keep them running by hand."
  
 
  "Blast it!" roared the captain. "No way of getting in there? Can't you
by-pass the selector?"
  
 
  "No. It's the heart of the new cosmic drive, sir. The fuels must pass
through selector valves before entering the tube chambers. Filaments
will operate so long as toxia gas is there to burn, and will keep
trying to open the valves and compensate for fluctuating engine
temperature. But the rod pins have melted down, sir—they're common
tungsten steel—and when the rods pull a valve open, they slip off and
drop down, useless. It's a mess. If we could only get a man in there
he might lift up the dropped end of a rod and slip it into place each
time it fell, and keep the valves working and feeding fuel."
  
 
  The speaker spluttered and Shano smoked thoughtfully, listening to the
talk back and forth, between the captain and the engineer. He didn't
understand it, but knew that everything was ended. They were broken
down in space and would never make Earth. Those Uranian devils would
come streaking back. Catch them floating, helpless, and blast them to
bits. And he would never get home to die.
  
 
  Shano coughed, and cursed his lungs. Time was when these gum-clogged
lungs had saved his life. In the Plutonian mines. Gas explosions in the
tunnels. Toxia gas, seeping in, burning the men's insides. But with
gum-clogged lungs he'd been able to work himself clear. Just getting
sick where other men had died, their insides burned out.
  
 
  Shano smoked and thought.
  
