  SIGNAL RED
  
 
  By HENRY GUTH
  
 
  They tried to stop him. Earth Flight 21 was a
   
  suicide run, a coffin ship, they told him.
   
  Uranian death lay athwart the space lanes. But
   
  Shano already knew this was his last ride.
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Planet Stories Fall 1949.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  Mercurian night settled black and thick over the Q City Spaceport.
Tentative fingers of light flicked and probed the sky, and winked out.
  
 
  "Here she comes," somebody in the line ahead said.
  
 
  Shano coughed, his whole skeletal body jerking. Arthritic joints sent
flashes of pain along his limbs. Here she comes, he thought, feeling
neither glad nor sad.
  
 
  He coughed and slipped polarized goggles over his eyes.
  
 
  The spaceport emerged bathed in infra red. Hangars, cradles, freighter
catapults and long runways stood out in sharp, diamond-clear detail.
High up, beyond the cone of illumination, a detached triple row of
bright specks—portholes of the liner
   
   Stardust
   
  —sank slowly down.
  
 
  There was no eagerness in him. Only a tiredness. A relief. Relief from
a lifetime of beating around the planets. A life of digging, lifting,
lugging and pounding. Like a work-worn Martian camel, he was going home
to die.
  
 
  As though on oiled pistons the ship sank into the light, its long
shark-like hull glowing soft and silvery, and settled with a feathery
snuggle into the cradle's ribs.
  
 
  The passenger line quivered as a loud-speaker boomed:
  
 
  "
   
   Stardust, now arrived at Cradle Six! Stardust, Cradle Six! All
passengers for Venus and Earth prepare to board in ten minutes.
   
  "
  
 
  Shano coughed, and wiped phlegm from his thin lips, his hand following
around the bony contours of his face, feeling the hollows and the beard
stubble and loose skin of his neck. He coughed and thought of the
vanium mines of Pluto, and his gum-clogged lungs. A vague, pressing
desire for home overwhelmed him. It had been so long.
  
 
  "
   
   Attention! Attention, Stardust passengers! The signal is red. The
signal is red. Refunds now being made. Refunds now. Take-off in five
minutes.
   
  "
  
 
  The man ahead swore and flicked up an arm. "Red," he groaned. "By the
infinite galaxies, this is the last straw!" He charged away, knocking
Shano aside as he passed.
  
 
 
   Red signal.
   
  In bewildered anxiety Shano lifted the goggles from his
eyes and stared into the sudden blackness. The red signal. Danger out
there. Passengers advised to ground themselves, or travel at their own
risk.
  
 
  He felt the passengers bump and fumble past him, grumbling vexatiously.
  
 
  A hot dread assailed him, and he coughed, plucking at his chest.
Plucking at an urgency there.
  
 
  Dropping the goggles to his rheumy eyes, he saw that the passenger line
had dissolved. He moved, shuffling, to the gate, thrust his ticket into
the scanner slot, and pushed through the turnstile when it clicked.
  
 
  "
   
   Flight twenty-one, now arriving from Venus
   
  ," the loud-speaker said
monotonously. Shano glanced briefly upward and saw the gleaming belly
of twenty-one sinking into the spaceport cone of light.
  
 
  He clawed his way up the gangway and thrust out his ticket to the
lieutenant standing alone at the air lock. The lieutenant, a sullen,
chunky man with a queer nick in his jawbone, refused the ticket.
"Haven't you heard, mister? Red signal. Go on back."
  
 
  Shano coughed, and peered through the lenses of his goggles. "Please,"
he said. "Want to go home. I've a right." The nicked jaw stirred faint
memories within his glazed mind.
  
 
  The lieutenant punched his ticket. "It's your funeral, old man."
  
 
  The loud-speaker blared. "
   
   Stardust, taking off in thirty seconds. The
signal is red. Stardust, taking—
   
  "
  
 
  With the words dinning in his ears, Shano stepped into the air lock.
The officer followed, spun wheels, and the lock closed. The outside was
shut off.
  
 
  Lifting goggles they entered the hull, through a series of two more
locks, closing each behind them.
  
 
  "We're afloat," the officer said. "We've taken off." A fleck of light
danced far back in his eye. Shano felt the pressure of acceleration
gradually increasing, increasing, and hurried in.
  
