The ship's alarm clanged. Shano jerked from his bunk like a broken
watch spring. He crouched, trembling, on arthritic joints, as a
loud-speaker blared throughout the ship.
  
 
  "
   
   All hands! We now maintain dead silence. Close down and stop all
machinery. Power off and lights out. An enemy fleet is out there,
listening and watching for mechanical and electronic disturbance.
Atmosphere will be maintained from emergency oxygen cylinders. Stop
pumps.
   
  "
  
 
  Shano crouched and listened as the ship's steady drone ceased and the
vibrations ceased. The pumps stopped, the lights went out.
  
 
  Pressing the cold steel bulkhead, Shano heard oxygen hiss through the
pipes. Hiss and hiss and then flow soundlessly, filling the cabin and
his lungs. He choked.
  
 
  The cabin was like a mine shaft, dark and cold. Feet pounded on the
deck outside.
  
 
  Shano clawed open the door. He peered out anxiously.
  
 
  Cold blobs of light, phosphorescent bulbs held in the fists of men,
glimmered by. Phosphorescent bulbs, because the power was off. Shano
blinked. He saw officers and men, their faces tight and pinched,
hurrying in all directions. Hurrying to shut down the ship.
  
 
  He acted impulsively. A young ensign strode by, drawn blaster in hand.
Shano followed him; followed the bluish glow of his bulb, through
labyrinthine passages and down a companionway, coughing and leering
against the pain in his joints. The blue light winked out in the
distance and Shano stopped.
  
 
  He was suddenly alarmed. The captain had warned him to stay in his
cabin. He looked back and forth, wondering how to return.
  
 
  A bell clanged.
  
 
  Shano saw a cold bulb glowing down the passageway, and he shuffled
hopefully toward it. The bulb moved away. He saw an indistinct figure
disappear through a door marked, ENGINE ROOM.
  
 
  Shano paused uncertainly at the end of the passageway. A thick cluster
of vertical pipes filled the corner. He peered at the pipes and saw a
gray box snuggled behind them. It had two toggle switches and a radium
dial that quivered delicately.
  
 
  Shano scratched his scalp as boots pounded on the decks, above
and below. He listened attentively to the ship's familiar noises
diminishing one by one. And finally even the pounding of feet died out;
everything became still. The silence shrieked in his ears.
  
