The ship coasted. Shano could sense it coasting. He couldn't feel it
or hear it, but he knew it was sliding ghost-like through space like a
submarine dead under water, slipping quietly past a listening enemy.
  
 
  The ship's speaker rasped softly. "
   
   Emergency. Battle posts.
   
  "
  
 
  The captain's voice. Calm, brief. It sent a tremor through Shano's
body. He heard a quick scuffle of feet again, running feet, directly
overhead, and the captain's voice, more urgently, "Power on. They've
heard us."
  
 
  The words carried no accusation, but Shano realized what they meant.
A slip-up. Something left running. Vibrations picked up quickly by
detectors of the Uranian space fleet.
  
 
  Shano coughed and heard the ship come to life around him. He pulled
himself out of the spasm, cursing Pluto. Cursing his diseased,
gum-clogged lungs. Cursing the Uranian fleet that was trying to prevent
his going home—even to die.
  
 
  This was a strange battle. Strange indeed. It was mostly silence.
  
 
  Occasionally, as though from another world, came a brief, curt order.
"Port guns alert." Then hush and tension.
  
 
  The deck lurched and the ship swung this way and that. Maybe dodging,
maybe maneuvering—Shano didn't know. He felt the deck lurch, that was
all.
  
 
  "Fire number seven."
  
 
  He heard the weird scream of a ray gun, and felt the constricting
terror that seemed to belt the ship like an iron band.
  
 
  This was a battle in space, and out there were Uranian cruisers trying
to blast the
   
   Stardust
   
  out of the sky. Trying and trying, while the
captain dodged and fired back—pitted his skill and knowledge against
an enemy Shano couldn't see.
  
 
  He wanted desperately to help the captain break through, and get to
Earth. But he could only cling to the plastic pipes and cough.
  
 
  The ship jounced and slid beneath his feet, and was filled with sound.
It rocked and rolled. Shano caromed off the bulkhead.
  
 
  "Hold fire."
  
 
  He crawled to his knees on the slippery deck, grabbed the pipes and
pulled himself erect, hand over hand. His eyes came level with the gray
metal box behind the pipes. He squinted, fascinated, at the quivering
dial needle. "Hey!" he said.
  
 
  "Stand by."
  
 
  Shano puzzled it out, his mind groping. He wasn't used to thinking.
Only working with his hands.
  
 
  This box. This needle that had quivered when the ship was closed
down....
  
 
  "It's over. Chased them off. Ready guns before laying to. Third watch
on duty."
  
 
  Shano sighed at the sudden release of tension throughout the space
liner
   
   Stardust
   
  .
  
 
  Smoke spewed from his nostrils. His forehead wrinkled with
concentration. Those rumors: "Man sells out to Uranus, gets a nick cut
in his jaw. Ever see a man with a nick in his jaw? Watch him, he's up
to something." The talk of ignorant men. Shano remembered.
  
 
  He poked behind the pipes and angrily slapped the toggle switches on
the box. The captain would only scoff. He'd never believe there was a
traitor aboard who had planted an electronic signal box, giving away
the ship's position. He'd never believe the babblings of an old man.
  
 
  He straightened up, glaring angrily. He knew. And the knowledge made
him cold and furious. He watched the engine room emergency exit as it
opened cautiously.
  
 
  A chunky man backed out, holstering a flat blaster. He turned and saw
Shano, standing smoking. He walked over and nudged Shano, his face
dark. Shano blew smoke into the dark face.
  
 
  "Old man," said Rourke. "What're you doing down here?"
  
 
  Shano blinked.
  
 
  Rourke fingered the nick in his jaw, eyes glinting. "You're supposed to
be in your cabin," he said. "Didn't I warn you we'd run into trouble?"
  
 
  Shano smoked and contemplated the chunky man. Estimated his strength
and youth and felt the anger and frustration mount in him. "Devil," he
said.
  
 
 
 
   "Devil," he said and dug his cigarette into the other's face.
   
 
 
 
  He lunged then, clawing. He dug the cigarette into Rourke's flushed
face, and clung to his body. Rourke howled. He fell backward to the
deck, slapping at his blistered face. He thrashed around and Shano
clung to him, battered, pressing the cigarette relentlessly, coughing,
cursing the pain in his joints.
  
 
  Shano grasped Rourke's neck with his hands. He twisted the neck with
his gnarled hands. Strong hands that had worked.
  
 
  He got up when Rourke stopped thrashing. The face was purple and he
was dead. Shano shivered. He crouched in the passageway shivering and
coughing.
  
