Eventually, because even a soldier can look small and cold and
pathetic, Bob Rossel had to get up out of a nice, warm bed and go out
in that miserable cold to meet him.
  
 
  The soldier saluted. Like most soldiers, he was not too neat and not
too clean and the salute was sloppy. Although he was bigger than
Rossel he did not seem bigger. And, because of the cold, there were
tears gathering in the ends of his eyes.
  
 
  "Captain Dylan, sir." His voice was low and did not carry. "I have a
message from Fleet Headquarters. Are you in charge here?"
  
 
  Rossel, a small sober man, grunted. "Nobody's in charge here. If you
want a spokesman I guess I'll do. What's up?"
  
 
  The captain regarded him briefly out of pale blue, expressionless eyes.
Then he pulled an envelope from an inside pocket, handed it to Rossel.
It was a thick, official-looking thing and Rossel hefted it idly. He
was about to ask again what was it all about when the airlock of the
hovering ship swung open creakily. A beefy, black-haired young man
appeared unsteadily in the doorway, called to Dylan.
  
 
  "C'n I go now, Jim?"
  
 
  Dylan turned and nodded.
  
 
  "Be back for you tonight," the young man called, and then, grinning,
he yelled "Catch" and tossed down a bottle. The captain caught it and
put it unconcernedly into his pocket while Rossel stared in disgust. A
moment later the airlock closed and the ship prepared to lift.
  
 
  "Was he
   
   drunk
   
  ?" Rossel began angrily. "Was that a bottle of
   
   liquor
   
  ?"
  
 
  The soldier was looking at him calmly, coldly. He indicated the
envelope in Rossel's hand. "You'd better read that and get moving. We
haven't much time."
  
 
  He turned and walked toward the buildings and Rossel had to follow. As
Rossel drew near the walls the watchers could see his lips moving but
could not hear him. Just then the ship lifted and they turned to watch
that, and followed it upward, red spark-tailed, into the gray spongy
clouds and the cold.
  
 
 
 
  After a while the ship went out of sight, and nobody ever saw it again.
  
