An obscenely cheerful expression upon his gaunt, not too well shaven
face, Captain Dylan perched himself upon the edge of a table and
listened, one long booted leg swinging idly. One by one the colonists
were beginning to understand. War is huge and comes with great
suddenness and always without reason, and there is inevitably a wait,
between acts, between the news and the motion, the fear and the rage.
  
 
  Dylan waited. These people were taking it well, much better than those
in the cities had taken it. But then, these were pioneers. Dylan
grinned. Pioneers. Before you settle a planet you boil it and bake
it and purge it of all possible disease. Then you step down gingerly
and inflate your plastic houses, which harden and become warm and
impregnable; and send your machines out to plant and harvest; and set
up automatic factories to transmute dirt into coffee; and, without ever
having lifted a finger, you have braved the wilderness, hewed a home
out of the living rock and become a pioneer. Dylan grinned again. But
at least this was better than the wailing of the cities.
  
 
  This Dylan thought, although he was himself no fighter, no man at all
by any standards. This he thought because he was a soldier and an
outcast; to every drunken man the fall of the sober is a happy thing.
He stirred restlessly.
  
 
  By this time the colonists had begun to realize that there wasn't much
to say, and a tall, handsome woman was murmuring distractedly: "Lupus,
Lupus—doesn't that mean wolves or something?"
  
 
  Dylan began to wish they would get moving, these pioneers. It was very
possible that the aliens would be here soon, and there was no need for
discussion. There was only one thing to do and that was to clear the
hell out, quickly and without argument. They began to see it.
  
 
  But, when the fear had died down, the resentment came. A number of
women began to cluster around Dylan and complain, working up their
anger. Dylan said nothing. Then the man Rossel pushed forward and
confronted him, speaking with a vast annoyance.
  
 
  "See here, soldier, this is our planet. I mean to say, this is our
   
   home
   
  . We demand some protection from the fleet. By God, we've been
paying the freight for you boys all these years and it's high time you
earned your keep. We demand...."
  
 
  It went on and on while Dylan looked at the clock and waited. He hoped
that he could end this quickly. A big gloomy man was in front of him
now and giving him that name of ancient contempt, "soldier boy." The
gloomy man wanted to know where the fleet was.
  
 
  "There is no fleet. There are a few hundred half-shot old tubs that
were obsolete before you were born. There are four or five new jobs for
the brass and the government. That's all the fleet there is."
  
