Dylan swung slowly to look at him. "As far as I can figure, an alien
cut it."
  
 
  Rush shook his head. "No. Ain't been no aliens near this camp, and
no peculiar animals either. We got a planet-wide radar, and ain't no
unidentified ships come near, not since we first landed more'n a year
ago." He lifted the rifle and peered through the bore. "Uh-uh. One of
us did it."
  
 
  The man had been thinking. And he knew the planet.
  
 
  "Telepathy?" asked Dylan.
  
 
  "Might be."
  
 
  "Can't see it. You people live too close, you'd notice right away if
one of you wasn't ... himself. And, if they've got one, why not all?"
  
 
  Rush calmly—at least outwardly calmly—lit his pipe. There was a
strength in this man that Dylan had missed before.
  
 
  "Don't know," he said gruffly. "But these are aliens, mister. And until
I know different I'm keepin' an eye on my neighbor."
  
 
  He gave Rossel a sour look and Rossel stared back, uncomprehending.
  
 
  Then Rossel jumped. "My God!"
  
 
  Dylan moved to quiet him. "Look, is there any animal at all that ever
comes near here that's as large as a dog?"
  
 
  After a pause, Rush answered. "Yep, there's one. The viggle. It's like
a reg'lar monkey but with four legs. Biology cleared 'em before we
landed. We shoot one now and then when they get pesky." He rose slowly,
the rifle held under his arm. "I b'lieve we might just as well go post
them sentries."
  
 
  Dylan wanted to go on with this but there was nothing much else to
say. Rossel went with them as far as the radio shack, with a strained
expression on his face, to put through that call to Three.
  
 
  When he was gone Rush asked Dylan, "Where you want them sentries? I got
Walt Halloran and Web Eggers and six others lined up."
  
 
  Dylan stopped and looked around grimly at the circling wall of snow.
"You know the site better than I do. Post 'em in a ring, on rises,
within calling distance. Have 'em check with each other every five
minutes. I'll go help your people at the ship."
  
 
  The gloomy man nodded and fluffed up his collar. "Nice day for
huntin'," he said, and then he was gone with the snow quickly covering
his footprints.
  
