Dylan wanted to go on about that, to remind them that nobody had wanted
the army, that the fleet had grown smaller and smaller ... but this was
not the time. It was ten-thirty already and the damned aliens might be
coming in right now for all he knew, and all they did was talk. He had
realized a long time ago that no peace-loving nation in the history
of Earth had ever kept itself strong, and although peace was a noble
dream, it was ended now and it was time to move.
  
 
  "We'd better get going," he finally said, and there was quiet.
"Lieutenant Bossio has gone on to your sister colony at Planet Three of
this system. He'll return to pick me up by nightfall and I'm instructed
to have you gone by then."
  
 
  For a long moment they waited, and then one man abruptly walked off and
the rest followed quickly; in a moment they were all gone. One or two
stopped long enough to complain about the fleet, and the big gloomy man
said he wanted guns, that's all, and there wouldn't nobody get him off
his planet. When he left, Dylan breathed with relief and went out to
check the bomb, grateful for the action.
  
 
  Most of it had to be done in the open. He found a metal bar in the
radio shack and began chopping at the frozen ground, following the
wire. It was the first thing he had done with his hands in weeks, and
it felt fine.
  
 
  Dylan had been called up out of a bar—he and Bossio—and told what had
happened, and in three weeks now they had cleared four colonies. This
would be the last, and the tension here was beginning to get to him.
After thirty years of hanging around and playing like the town drunk,
a man could not be expected to rush out and plug the breach, just like
that. It would take time.
  
 
  He rested, sweating, took a pull from the bottle on his hip.
  
 
  Before they sent him out on this trip they had made him a captain.
Well, that was nice. After thirty years he was a captain. For thirty
years he had bummed all over the west end of space, had scraped his way
along the outer edges of Mankind, had waited and dozed and patrolled
and got drunk, waiting always for something to happen. There were a lot
of ways to pass the time while you waited for something to happen, and
he had done them all.
  
 
  Once he had even studied military tactics.
  
 
  He could not help smiling at that, even now. Damn it, he'd been green.
But he'd been only nineteen when his father died—of a hernia, of a
crazy fool thing like a hernia that killed him just because he'd worked
too long on a heavy planet—and in those days the anti-war conditioning
out on the Rim was not very strong. They talked a lot about guardians
of the frontier, and they got him and some other kids and a broken-down
doctor. And ... now he was a captain.
  
 
  He bent his back savagely, digging at the ground. You wait and you wait
and the edge goes off. This thing he had waited for all those damn days
was upon him now and there was nothing he could do but say the hell
with it and go home. Somewhere along the line, in some dark corner of
the bars or the jails, in one of the million soul-murdering insults
which are reserved especially for peacetime soldiers, he had lost the
core of himself, and it didn't particularly matter. That was the point:
it made no particular difference if he never got it back. He owed
nobody. He was tugging at the wire and trying to think of something
pleasant from the old days, when the wire came loose in his hands.
  
 
  Although he had been, in his cynical way, expecting it, for a moment it
threw him and he just stared. The end was clean and bright. The wire
had just been cut.
  
