 
  SOLDIER BOY
  
 
  By MICHAEL SHAARA
  
 
  Illustrated by EMSH
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Galaxy Science Fiction July 1953.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
 
   It's one thing to laugh at a man because his job is useless
    
   and outdated—another to depend on him when it suddenly isn't.
   
 
 
 
 
   In the northland, deep, and in a great cave, by an everburning fire
the Warrior sleeps. For this is the resting time, the time of peace,
and so shall it be for a thousand years. And yet we shall summon him
again, my children, when we are sore in need, and out of the north he
will come, and again and again, each time we call, out of the dark and
the cold, with the fire in his hands, he will come.
   
 
 
  —
   
   Scandinavian legend
   
 
 
 
  Throughout the night, thick clouds had been piling in the north; in
the morning, it was misty and cold. By eight o'clock a wet, heavy,
snow-smelling breeze had begun to set in, and because the crops were
all down and the winter planting done, the colonists brewed hot coffee
and remained inside. The wind blew steadily, icily from the north. It
was well below freezing when, some time after nine, an army ship landed
in a field near the settlement.
  
 
  There was still time. There were some last brief moments in which the
colonists could act and feel as they had always done. They therefore
grumbled in annoyance. They wanted no soldiers here. The few who had
convenient windows stared out with distaste and a mild curiosity, but
no one went out to greet them.
  
 
  After a while a rather tall, frail-looking man came out of the ship
and stood upon the hard ground looking toward the village. He remained
there, waiting stiffly, his face turned from the wind. It was a silly
thing to do. He was obviously not coming in, either out of pride or
just plain orneriness.
  
 
  "Well, I never," a nice lady said.
  
 
  "What's he just
   
   standing
   
  there for?" another lady said.
  
 
  And all of them thought: well, God knows what's in the mind of a
soldier, and right away many people concluded that he must be drunk.
The seed of peace was deeply planted in these people, in the children
and the women, very, very deep. And because they had been taught, oh so
carefully, to hate war they had also been taught, quite incidentally,
to despise soldiers.
  
 
  The lone man kept standing in the freezing wind.
  
