It was then that Dylan told him about the wire on Lupus V. Rossel was
silent. Involuntarily, he glanced at the sky, then he said shakily,
"Maybe an animal?"
  
 
  Dylan shook his head. "No animal did that. Wouldn't have buried it, or
found it in the first place. Heck of a coincidence, don't you think?
The wire at Lupus was cut just before an alien attack, and now this one
is cut too—newly cut."
  
 
  The colonist put one hand to his mouth, his eyes wide and white.
  
 
  "So something," said Dylan, "knew enough about this camp to know that
a bomb was buried here and also to know why it was here. And that
something didn't want the camp destroyed and so came right into the
center of the camp, traced the wire, dug it up and cut it. And then
walked right out again."
  
 
  "Listen," said Rossel, "I'd better go ask."
  
 
  He started away but Dylan caught his arm.
  
 
  "Tell them to arm," he said, "and try not to scare hell out of them.
I'll be with you as soon as I've spliced this wire."
  
 
  Rossel nodded and went off, running. Dylan knelt with the metal in his
hands.
  
 
  He began to feel that, by God, he was getting cold. He realized that
he'd better go inside soon, but the wire had to be spliced. That was
perhaps the most important thing he could do now, splice the wire.
  
 
  All right, he asked himself for the thousandth time, who cut it? How?
Telepathy? Could they somehow control one of us?
  
 
  No. If they controlled one, then they could control all, and then there
would be no need for an attack. But you don't know, you don't really
know.
  
 
  Were they small? Little animals?
  
 
  Unlikely. Biology said that really intelligent life required a sizable
brain and you would have to expect an alien to be at least as large
as a dog. And every form of life on this planet had been screened long
before a colony had been allowed in. If any new animals had suddenly
shown up, Rossel would certainly know about it.
  
 
  He would ask Rossel. He would damn sure have to ask Rossel.
  
 
  He finished splicing the wire and tucked it into the ground. Then he
straightened up and, before he went into the radio shack, he pulled out
his pistol. He checked it, primed it, and tried to remember the last
time he had fired it. He never had—he never had fired a gun.
  
