I liked your folks, Laura. There was no star-hunger in them, of course.
They were simple and solid and settled, like green growing things,
deep-rooted, belonging to Earth. They were content with a home that was
cool on this warm summer night, with a 'copter and a tri-dimensional
video, and a handsome automatic home that needed no servants or
housework.
  
 
  Stardust Charlie was as comfortable as a Martian sand-monkey in a
shower, but he tried courageously to be himself.
  
 
  At the dinner table he stared glassily at nothing and grated, "Only hit
Mars once, but I'll never forget the kid who called himself a medic.
Skipper started coughing, kept it up for three days. Whoopin' cough,
the medic says, not knowin' the air had chemicals that turned to acid
in your lungs. I'd never been to Mars before, but I knew better'n that.
Hell, I says, that ain't whoopin' cough, that's lung-rot."
  
 
  That was when your father said he wasn't so hungry after all.
  
 
  Afterward, you and I walked onto the terrace, into the moonlit night,
to watch for crimson-tailed continental rockets that occasionally
streaked up from White Sands.
  
 
  We gazed for a few seconds up into the dark sky, and then you said:
"Charlie is funny, isn't he? He's nice and I'm glad he's here, but he's
sort of funny."
  
 
  "He's an old-time spaceman. You didn't need much education in those
days, just a lot of brawn and a quick mind. It took guts to be a
spaceman then."
  
 
  "But he wasn't always a spaceman. Didn't he ever have a family?"
  
 
  I smiled and shook my head. "If he had, he never mentioned it. Charlie
doesn't like to be sentimental, at least not on the outside. As far as
I know, his life began when he took off for the Moon with Everson."
  
 
  You stared at me strangely, almost in a sacred kind of way. I knew
suddenly that you liked me, and my heart began to beat faster.
  
 
  There was silence.
  
 
  You were lovely, your soft hair like strands of gold, and there were
flecks of silver in your dark eyes. Somehow I was afraid. I had the
feeling that I shouldn't have come here.
  
 
  You kept looking at me until I had to ask: "What are you thinking,
Laura?"
  
 
  You laughed, but it was a sad, fearful laugh. "No, I shouldn't be
thinking it. You'd hate me if I told you, and I wouldn't want that."
  
 
  "I could never hate you."
  
 
  "It—it's about the stars," you said very softly. "I understand why you
want to go to them. Mickey and I used to dream about them when we were
kids. Of course I was a girl, so it was just a game to me. But once I
dreamed of going to England. Oh, it was going to be so wonderful. I
lived for months, just thinking about it.
  
 
  "One summer we went. I had fun. I saw the old buildings and castles,
and the spaceports and the Channel Tube. But after it was over, I
realized England wasn't so different from America. Places seem exciting
before you get to them, and afterward they're not really."
  
 
  I frowned. "And you mean it might be the same with the stars? You think
maybe I haven't grown up yet?"
  
 
  Anxiety darkened your features. "No, it'd be good to be a spaceman,
to see the strange places and make history. But is it worth it? Is it
worth the things you'd have to give up?"
  
 
  I didn't understand at first, and I wanted to ask, "Give up
   
   what
   
  ?"
  
 
  Then I looked at you and the promise in your eyes, and I knew.
  
 
  All through the years I'd been walking down a single, narrow path.
  
 
  Government boarding school, the Academy, my eyes always upward and on
the stars.
  
 
  Now I'd stumbled into a cross-roads, beholding a strange new path that
I'd never noticed before.
  
 
 
   You can go into space
   
  , I thought,
   
   and try to do as much living in
ten years as normal men do in fifty. You can be like Everson, who died
in a Moon crash at the age of 36, or like a thousand others who lie
buried in Martian sand and Venusian dust. Or, if you're lucky, like
Charlie—a kind of human meteor streaking through space, eternally
alone, never finding a home.
   
 
 
 
   Or there's the other path. To stay on this little prison of an Earth
in cool, comfortable houses. To be one of the solid, rooted people with
a wife and kids. To be one of the people who live long enough to grow
old, who awake to the song of birds instead of rocket grumblings, who
fill their lungs with the clean rich air of Earth instead of poisonous
dust.
   
 
 
  "I'm sorry," you said. "I didn't mean to make you sad, Ben."
  
 
  "It's all right," I said, clenching my fists. "You made sense—a lot of
sense."
  
