Forty days of joy, forty nights of fear and indecision. We did all the
little things, like watching the rockets land at White Sands and flying
down to the Gulf to swim in cool waters. You tried, unsuccessfully, to
teach me to dance, and we talked about Everson and Charlie and the Moon
and the stars. You felt you had to give the stars all the beauty and
promise of a child's dream, because you knew that was what I wanted.
  
 
  One morning I thought,
   
   Why must I make a choice? Why can't I have both
you and the stars? Would that be asking too much?
   
 
 
  All day the thought lay in my mind like fire.
  
 
  That evening I asked you to marry me. I said it very simply: "Laura, I
want you to be my wife."
  
 
  You looked up at Venus, and you were silent for a long while, your face
flushed.
  
 
  Then you murmured, "I—I want to marry you, Ben, but are you asking me
to marry a spaceman or a teacher?"
  
 
  "Can't a spaceman marry, too?"
  
 
  "Yes, a spaceman can marry, but what would it be like? Don't you see,
Ben? You'd be like Charlie. Gone for
   
   maybe
   
  two months,
   
   maybe
   
  two
years. Then you'd have a twenty-four hour liberty—and I'd have what?"
  
 
  Somehow I'd expected words like these, but still they hurt. "I wouldn't
have to be a spaceman forever. I could try it for a couple of years,
then teach."
  
 
  "Would you, Ben? Would you be satisfied with just seeing Mars? Wouldn't
you want to go on to Jupiter and Saturn and Uranus and on and on?"
  
 
  Your voice was choked, and even in the semi-darkness I saw tears
glittering in your eyes.
  
 
  "Do you think I'd dare have children, Ben? Mickey told me what happened
on the
   
   Cyclops
   
  . There was a leak in the atomic engines. The ship was
flooded with radiation—just for a second. It didn't seem serious. The
men had no burns. But a year later the captain had a child. And it
was—"
  
 
  "I know, Laura. Don't say it."
  
 
  You had to finish. "It was a monster."
  
 
  That night I lay awake, the fears and doubts too frantic to let me
sleep.
  
 
 
   You've got to decide now
   
  , I told myself.
   
   You can't stay here. You've
got to make a choice.
   
 
 
  The teaching job was still open. The spot on the
   
   Odyssey
   
  was still
open—and the big ship, it was rumored, was equipped to make it all the
way to Pluto.
  
 
 
   You can take Dean Dawson's job and stay with Laura and have kids and a
home and live to see what happens in this world sixty years from now.
   
 
 
 
   Or you can see what's on the other side of the mountain. You can be a
line in a history book.
   
 
 
  I cursed. I knew what Charlie would say. He'd say, "Get the hell out
of there, boy. Don't let a fool woman make a sucker out of you. Get
out there on the
   
   Odyssey
   
  where you belong. We got a date on Mars,
remember? At the
   
   Space Rat
   
  , just off Chandler Field on the Grand
Canal."
  
 
  That's what he'd say.
  
 
  And yet I wanted you, Laura. I wanted to be with you, always.
  
 
  "Oh God," I moaned, "what shall I do?"
  
