On our way to the 'copter parking field, Dean Dawson passed us. He was
a tall, willowy man, spectacled, looking the way an academy professor
should look.
  
 
  "Ben," he called, "don't forget that offer. Remember you've got two
months to decide."
  
 
  "No, thanks," I answered. "Better not count on me."
  
 
  A moment later Mickey said, frowning, "What was he talking about, Ben?
Did he make you an offer?"
  
 
  I laughed. "He offered me a job here at the Academy teaching
astrogation. What a life
   
   that
   
  would be! Imagine standing in a
classroom for forty years when I've got the chance to—"
  
 
  I hesitated, and you supplied the right words: "When you've got the
chance to be the first to reach a new planet. That's what most of you
want, isn't it? That's what Mickey used to want."
  
 
  I looked at you as if you were Everson himself, because you seemed to
understand the hunger that could lie in a man's heart.
  
 
  Then your last words came back and jabbed me: "That's what Mickey used
to want."
  
 
  "
   
   Used
   
  to want?" I asked. "What do you mean?"
  
 
  You bit your lip, not answering.
  
 
  "What did she mean, Mickey?"
  
 
  Mickey looked down at his feet. "I didn't want to tell you yet, Ben.
We've been together a long time, planning to be on a rocket. But—"
  
 
  "Yes?"
  
 
  "Well, what does it add up to? You become a spaceman and wear a pretty
uniform. You wade through the sands of Mars and the dust of Venus. If
you're lucky, you're good for five, maybe ten years. Then one thing or
another gets you. They don't insure rocketmen, you know."
  
 
  My stomach was full of churning, biting ice. "What are you trying to
say, Mickey?"
  
 
  "I've thought about it a long time. They want me for Cargo Supervisor
of White Sands Port." He raised his hand to stop me. "I know. It's not
so exciting. I'll just live a lot longer. I'm sorry, Ben."
  
 
  I couldn't answer. It was as if someone had whacked the back of my
knees with the blast of a jet.
  
 
  "It doesn't change anything, Ben—right now, I mean. We can still have
a good weekend."
  
 
  Charlie was muttering under his breath, smoldering like a bomb about to
reach critical mass. I shook my head dazedly at him as we got to the
'copter.
  
 
  "Sure," I said to Mickey, "we can still have a good weekend."
  
