That afternoon Mickey showed me his room. It was more like a boy's
room than a spaceman's. In it were all the little things that kids
treasure—pennants, models of Everson's two ships, a tennis trophy,
books, a home-made video.
  
 
  I began to realize how important a room like this could be to a boy.
I could imagine, too, the happiness that parents felt as they watched
their children grow to adulthood.
  
 
  I'd missed something. My folks were shadow-people, my impressions of
them drawn half from ancient photos, half from imagination. For me, it
had been a cold, automatic kind of life, the life of dormitories and
routines and rules. I'd been so blinded by the brilliancy of my dreams,
I hadn't realized I was different.
  
 
 
   My folks were killed in a rocket crash. If it weren't for rockets, I'd
have lived the kind of life a kid should live.
   
 
 
  Mickey noticed my frown.
  
 
  "What's the matter, Ben? Still sore? I feel like a heel, but I'm just
not like you and Charlie, I guess. I—"
  
 
  "No, I understand, Mickey. I'm not sore, really."
  
 
  "Listen, then. You haven't accepted any offer yet, have you?"
  
 
  "No. I got a couple of possibilities. Could get a berth on the
   
   Odyssey
   
  , the new ship being finished at Los Angeles. They want me,
too, for the Moon Patrol, but that's old stuff, not much better than
teaching. I want to be in deep space."
  
 
  "Well, how about staying with us till you decide? Might as well enjoy
Earth life while you can. Okay?"
  
 
  I felt like running from the house, to forget that it existed. I wanted
someone to tell me one of the old stories about space, a tale of
courage that would put fuel on dying dreams.
  
 
  But I wanted, also, to be with you, Laura, to see your smile and the
flecks of silver in your eyes and the way your nose turned upward ever
so slightly when you laughed. You see, I loved you already, almost as
much as I loved the stars.
  
 
  And I said, slowly, my voice sounding unfamiliar and far away, "Sure,
I'll stay, Mickey. Sure."
  
