To start off, he dressed with great care in the honorable
retirement-rank suit he had so recently purchased. His space pin he
attached carefully to the lapel. That was a good beginning, he decided.
A bit of prestige didn't hurt you when you went out on the town. In
the Ultrawelfare State hardly one person in a hundred actually ever
performed anything of value to society. The efforts of most weren't
needed. Those few who did contribute were awarded honors, decorations,
titles.
  
 
  Attired satisfactorily, Si double-checked to see that his credit
card was in his pocket. As an after-thought, he went over to the
auto-apartment's teevee-phone, flicked it on, held the card to the
screen and said, "Balance check, please."
  
 
  In a moment, the teevee-phone's robot voice reported, "Ten shares of
Inalienable Basic. Twelve shares of Variable Basic, current value, four
thousand, two hundred and thirty-three dollars and sixty-two cents
apiece. Current cash credit, one thousand and eighty-four dollars." The
screen went dead.
  
 
  One thousand and eighty-four dollars. That was plenty. He could safely
spend as much as half of it, if the spree got as lively as he hoped it
would. His monthly dividends were due in another week or so, and he
wouldn't have to worry about current expenses. Yes, indeedy, Si Pond
was as solvent as he had ever been in his thirty years.
  
 
  He opened the small, closet-like door which housed his vacuum-tube
two-seater, and wedged himself into the small vehicle. He brought down
the canopy, dropped the pressurizer and considered the dial. Only one
place really made sense. The big city.
  
 
  He considered for a moment, decided against the boroughs of Baltimore
and Boston, and selected Manhattan instead. He had the resources. He
might as well do it up brown.
  
 
  He dialed Manhattan and felt the sinking sensation that presaged his
car's dropping to tube level. While it was being taken up by the robot
controls, being shuttled here and there preparatory to the shot to his
destination, he dialed the vehicle's teevee-phone for information on
the hotels of the island of the Hudson. He selected a swank hostelry
he'd read about and seen on the teevee casts of society and celebrity
gossip reporters, and dialed it on the car's destination dial.
  
 
  "Nothing too good for ex-Space Pilot Si Pond," he said aloud.
  
 
  The car hesitated for a moment, that brief hesitation before the
shot, and Si took the involuntary breath from which only heroes could
refrain. He sank back slowly into the seat. Moments passed, and the
direction of the pressure was reversed.
  
 
  Manhattan. The shuttling began again, and one or two more traversing
sub-shots. Finally, the dash threw a green light and Si opened the
canopy and stepped into his hotel room.
  
 
  A voice said gently, "If the quarters are satisfactory, please present
your credit card within ten minutes."
  
 
  Si took his time. Not that he really needed it. It was by far the most
swank suite he had ever seen. One wall was a window of whatever size
the guest might desire and Si touched the control that dilated it to
the full. His view opened in such wise that he could see both the
Empire State Building Museum and the Hudson. Beyond the river stretched
the all but endless city which was Greater Metropolis.
  
 
  He didn't take the time to flick on the menu, next to the auto-dining
table, nor to check the endless potables on the autobar list. All that,
he well knew, would be superlative. Besides, he didn't plan to dine
or do much drinking in his suite. He made a mock leer. Not unless he
managed to acquire some feminine companionship, that was.
  
 
  He looked briefly into the swimming pool and bath, then flopped
himself happily onto the bed. It wasn't up to the degree of softness
he presently desired, and he dialed the thing to the ultimate in that
direction so that with a laugh he sank almost out of sight into the
mattress.
  
 
  He came back to his feet, gave his suit a quick patting so that it
fell into press and, taking his credit card from his pocket, put it
against the teevee-phone screen and pressed the hotel button so that
registration could be completed.
  
 
  For a moment he stood in the center of the floor, in thought. Take it
easy, Si Pond, take it all easy, this time. No throwing his dollars
around in second-class groggeries, no eating in automated luncheterias.
This time, be it the only time in his life, he was going to frolic in
the grand manner. No cloddy was Si Pond.
  
 
  He decided a drink was in order to help him plan his strategy. A drink
at the hotel's famous Kudos Room where celebrities were reputed to be a
dime a dozen.
  
 
  He left the suite and stepped into one of the elevators. He said,
"Kudos Room."
  
 
  The auto-elevator murmured politely, "Yes, sir, the Kudos Room."
  
