 
  SPACEMAN ON A SPREE
  
 
  BY MACK REYNOLDS
  
 
  Illustrated by Nodel
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Worlds of Tomorrow June 1963
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  What's more important—Man's conquest
   
  of space, or one spaceman's life?
  
 
 
  I
  
 
  They gave him a gold watch. It was meant to be symbolical, of course.
In the old tradition. It was in the way of an antique, being one of the
timepieces made generations past in the Alpine area of Eur-Asia. Its
quaintness lay in the fact that it was wound, not electronically by
power-radio, but by the actual physical movements of the bearer, a free
swinging rotor keeping the mainspring at a constant tension.
  
 
  They also had a banquet for him, complete with speeches by such
bigwigs of the Department of Space Exploration as Academician Lofting
Gubelin and Doctor Hans Girard-Perregaux. There was also somebody
from the government who spoke, but he was one of those who were
pseudo-elected and didn't know much about the field of space travel
nor the significance of Seymour Pond's retirement. Si didn't bother to
remember his name. He only wondered vaguely why the cloddy had turned
up at all.
  
 
  In common with recipients of gold watches of a score of generations
before him, Si Pond would have preferred something a bit more tangible
in the way of reward, such as a few shares of Variable Basic to add to
his portfolio. But that, he supposed, was asking too much.
  
 
  The fact of the matter was, Si knew that his retiring had set them
back. They hadn't figured he had enough shares of Basic to see him
through decently. Well, possibly he didn't, given their standards.
But Space Pilot Seymour Pond didn't have their standards. He'd had
plenty of time to think it over. It was better to retire on a limited
crediting, on a confoundedly limited crediting, than to take the two or
three more trips in hopes of attaining a higher standard.
  
 
  He'd had plenty of time to figure it out, there alone in space on the
Moon run, there on the Venus or Mars runs. There on the long, long
haul to the Jupiter satellites, fearfully checking the symptoms of
space cafard, the madness compounded of claustrophobia, monotony,
boredom and free fall. Plenty of time. Time to decide that a one
room mini-auto-apartment, complete with an autochair and built-in
autobar, and with one wall a teevee screen, was all he needed to
find contentment for a mighty long time. Possibly somebody like
Doc Girard-Perregaux might be horrified at the idea of living in a
mini-auto-apartment ... not realizing that to a pilot it was roomy
beyond belief compared to the conning tower of a space craft.
  
 
  No. Even as Si listened to their speeches, accepted the watch and
made a halting little talk of his own, he was grinning inwardly. There
wasn't anything they could do. He had them now. He had enough Basic to
keep him comfortably, by his standards, for the rest of his life. He
was never going to subject himself to space cafard again. Just thinking
about it, now, set the tic to going at the side of his mouth.
  
 
  They could count down and blast off, for all he gave a damn.
  
