II
  
 
  Si Pond was a great believer in the institution of the spree. Any
excuse would do. Back when he had finished basic education at the age
of twenty-five and was registered for the labor draft, there hadn't
been a chance in a hundred that he'd have the bad luck to have his
name pulled. But when it had been, Si had celebrated.
  
 
  When he had been informed that his physical and mental qualifications
were such that he was eligible for the most dangerous occupation in
the Ultrawelfare State and had been pressured into taking training
for space pilot, he had celebrated once again. Twenty-two others had
taken the training with him, and only he and Rod Cameroon had passed
the finals. On this occasion, he and Rod had celebrated together. It
had been quite a party. Two weeks later, Rod had burned on a faulty
take-off on what should have been a routine Moon run.
  
 
  Each time Si returned from one of his own runs, he celebrated. A spree,
a bust, a bat, a wing-ding, a night on the town. A commemoration of
dangers met and passed.
  
 
  Now it was all over. At the age of thirty he was retired. Law prevented
him from ever being called up for contributing to the country's labor
needs again. And he most certainly wasn't going to volunteer.
  
 
  He had taken his schooling much as had his contemporaries. There wasn't
any particular reason for trying to excell. You didn't want to get the
reputation for being a wise guy, or a cloddy either. Just one of the
fellas. You could do the same in life whether you really studied or
not. You had your Inalienable Basic stock, didn't you? What else did
you need?
  
 
  It had come as a surprise when he'd been drafted for the labor force.
  
 
  In the early days of the Ultrawelfare State, they had made a mistake
in adapting to the automation of the second industrial revolution.
They had attempted to give everyone work by reducing the number of
working hours in the day, and the number of working days in the week.
It finally became ludicrous when employees of industry were working
but two days a week, two hours a day. In fact, it got chaotic. It
became obvious that it was more practical to have one worker putting in
thirty-five hours a week and getting to know his job well, than it was
to have a score of employees, each working a few hours a week and none
of them ever really becoming efficient.
  
 
  The only fair thing was to let the technologically unemployed remain
unemployed, with their Inalienable Basic stock as the equivalent of
unemployment insurance, while the few workers still needed put in a
reasonable number of hours a day, a reasonable number of weeks a year
and a reasonable number of years in a life time. When new employees
were needed, a draft lottery was held.
  
 
  All persons registered in the labor force participated. If you
were drawn, you must need serve. The dissatisfaction those chosen
might feel at their poor luck was offset by the fact that they were
granted additional Variable Basic shares, according to the tasks
they fulfilled. Such shares could be added to their portfolios, the
dividends becoming part of their current credit balance, or could be
sold for a lump sum on the market.
  
 
  Yes, but now it was all over. He had his own little place, his own
vacuum-tube vehicle and twice the amount of shares of Basic that most
of his fellow citizens could boast. Si Pond had it made. A spree was
obviously called for.
  
 
  He was going to do this one right. This was the big one. He'd
accumulated a lot of dollars these past few months and he intended
to blow them, or at least a sizeable number of them. His credit card
was burning a hole in his pocket, as the expression went. However, he
wasn't going to rush into things. This had to be done correctly.
  
 
  Too many a spree was played by ear. You started off with a few drinks,
fell in with some second rate mopsy and usually wound up in a third
rate groggery where you spent just as much as though you'd been in the
classiest joint in town. Came morning and you had nothing to show for
all the dollars that had been spent but a rum-head.
  
 
  Thus, Si was vaguely aware, it had always been down through the
centuries since the Phoenecian sailor, back from his year-long trip to
the tin mines of Cornwall, blew his hard earned share of the voyage's
profits in a matter of days in the wine shops of Tyre. Nobody gets
quite so little for his money as that loneliest of all workers, he who
must leave his home for distant lands, returning only periodically and
usually with the salary of lengthy, weary periods of time to be spent
hurriedly in an attempt to achieve the pleasure and happiness so long
denied him.
  
 
  Si was going to do it differently this time.
  
 
  Nothing but the best. Wine, women, song, food, entertainment. The
works. But nothing but the best.
  
