Next morning the door chimes pealed, and you went to the door and
brought back the audiogram. It was addressed to me; I wondered who
could be sending me a message.
  
 
  I pressed the stud on the little gray cylinder, and a rasping,
automatic voice droned: "Luna City, Luna, July 27, 1995. Regret to
inform you of death of Charles Taggart, Chief Jetman...."
  
 
  Then there was a Latin name which was more polite than the word
"lung-rot" and the metallic phrase, "This message brought to you by
courtesy of United Nations Earth-Luna Communication Corps."
  
 
  I stood staring at the cylinder.
  
 
  Charles Taggart was dead.
  
 
  Charles Taggart was Charlie. Stardust Charlie.
  
 
  My heart thudded crazily against my chest. It couldn't be! Not Charlie!
The audiogram had lied!
  
 
  I pressed the stud again. "... regret to inform you of death of
Charles ..."
  
 
  I hurled the cylinder at the wall. It thudded, fell, rolled. The broken
voice droned on.
  
 
  You ran to it, shut it off. "I'm sorry, Ben, so terribly—"
  
 
  Without answering, I walked into my room. I knew it was true now. I
remembered Charlie's coughing, his gaunt features, his drugged gaze.
The metallic words had told the truth.
  
 
  I sat for a long time on my bed, crying inside, but staring dry-eyed at
Charlie's faded tin box.
  
 
  Then, finally, I fingered his meager possessions—a few wrinkled
photos, some letters, a small black statue of a forgotten Martian god,
a gold service medal from the Moon Patrol.
  
 
 
 
  This was what remained of Charlie after twenty-five years in space.
It was a bitter bargain. A statue instead of a wife, yellowed letters
instead of children, a medal instead of a home.
  
 
 
   It'd be a great future
   
  , I thought.
   
   You'd dream of sitting in a dingy
stone dive on the Grand Canal with sand-wasps buzzing around smoky,
stinking candles. A bottle of luchu juice and a couple of Martian girls
with dirty feet for company. And a sudden cough that would be the first
sign of lung-rot.
   
 
 
  To hell with it!
  
 
  I walked into your living room and called Dean Dawson on the visiphone.
  
 
  I accepted that job teaching.
  
