Girard-Perregaux was wagging his finger again, a gesture that,
seemingly mild though it was, had an astonishing ability to break off
the conversation of one who debated with the easy-seeming, quiet spoken
man.
  
 
  He said, "No, he hasn't. Few there are who have, nowadays. Man has
always paid lip service to adventure, hardships and excitement, but in
actuality his instincts, like those of any other animal, lead him to
the least dangerous path. Today we've reached the point where no one
need face danger—ever. There are few who don't take advantage of the
fact. Including you and me, Lofting, and including Seymour Pond."
  
 
  His friend and colleague changed subjects abruptly, impatiently. "Let's
leave this blistering jabber about Pond's motivation and get to the
point. The man is the only trained space pilot in the world. It will
take months, possibly more than a year, to bring another novitiate
pilot to the point where he can safely be trusted to take our next
explorer craft out. Appropriations for our expeditions have been
increasingly hard to come by—even though in
   
   our
   
  minds, Hans, we are
near important breakthroughs, breakthroughs which might possibly so
spark the race that a new dream to push man out to the stars will take
hold of us. If it is admitted that our organization has degenerated
to the point that we haven't a single pilot, then it might well be
that the Economic Planning Board, and especially those cloddies
on Appropriations, will terminate the whole Department of Space
Exploration."
  
 
  "So...." Girard-Perregaux said gently.
  
 
  "So some way we've got to bring Seymour Pond out of his retirement!"
  
 
  "Now we are getting to matters." Girard-Perregaux nodded his agreement.
Looking over the rim of his glass, his eyes narrowed in thought as his
face took on an expression of Machiavellianism. "And do not the ends
justify the means?"
  
 
  Gubelin blinked at him.
  
 
  The other chuckled. "The trouble with you, Lofting, is that you have
failed to bring history to bear on our problem. Haven't you ever read
of the sailor and his way of life?"
  
 
  "Sailor? What in the name of the living Zoroaster has the sailor got to
do with it?"
  
 
  "You must realize, my dear Lofting, that our Si Pond is nothing more
than a latter-day sailor, with many of the problems and view-points,
tendencies and weaknesses of the voyager of the past. Have you never
heard of the seaman who dreamed of returning to the village of his
birth and buying a chicken farm or some such? All the long months at
sea—and sometimes the tramp freighters or whaling craft would be out
for years at a stretch before returning to home port—he would talk
of his retirement and his dream. And then? Then in port, it would be
one short drink with the boys, before taking his accumulated pay and
heading home. The one short drink would lead to another. And morning
would find him, drunk, rolled, tattooed and possibly sleeping it off in
jail. So back to sea he'd have to go."
  
 
  Gubelin grunted bitterly. "Unfortunately, our present-day sailor
can't be separated from his money quite so easily. If he could, I'd
personally be willing to lure him down some dark alley, knock him over
the head and roll him myself. Just to bring him back to his job again."
  
 
  He brought his wallet from his pocket, and flicked it open to his
universal credit card. "The ultimate means of exchange," he grunted.
"Nobody can spend your money, but you, yourself. Nobody can steal it,
nobody can, ah,
   
   con
   
  you out of it. Just how do you expect to sever
our present-day sailor and his accumulated nest egg?"
  
 
  The other chuckled again. "It is simply a matter of finding more modern
methods, my dear chap."
  
