She looked down into the drink the bartender had placed before her,
as though avoiding his face. "I ... I suppose it was that speech
Doctor Girard-Perregaux made. There you stood, so fine and straight in
your space-pilot uniform, the veteran of six exploration runs to the
planets...."
  
 
  "Well," Si said modestly, "two of my runs were only to the Moon."
  
 
  "... and he said all those things about man's conquest of space. And
the dream of the stars which man has held so long. And then the fact
that you were the last of the space pilots. The last man in the whole
world trained to pilot a space craft. And here you were, retiring."
  
 
  Si grunted. "Yeah. That's all part of the Doc's scheme to get me to
take on another three runs. They're afraid the whole department'll be
dropped by the Appropriations Committee on this here Economic Planning
Board. Even if they can find some other patsy to train for the job,
it'd take maybe a year before you could even send him on a Moon hop.
So old man Gubelin, and Girard-Perregaux too, they're both trying to
pressure me into more trips. Otherwise they got a Space Exploration
Department, with all the expense and all, but nobody to pilot their
ships. It's kind of funny, in a way. You know what one of those
spaceships costs?"
  
 
  "Funny?" she said. "Why, I don't think it's funny at all."
  
 
  Si said, "Look, how about another drink?"
  
 
  Natalie Paskov said, "Oh, I'd love to have a drink with you, Mr...."
  
 
 
 
  "Si," Si said. He motioned to the bartender with a circular twist of
the hand indicating their need for two more of the same. "How come you
know so much about it? You don't meet many people who are interested
in space any more. In fact, most people are almost contemptuous, like.
Think it's kind of a big boondoggle deal to help use up a lot of
materials and all and keep the economy going."
  
 
  Natalie said earnestly, "Why, I've been a space fan all my life. I've
read all about it. Have always known the names of all the space pilots
and everything about them, ever since I was a child. I suppose you'd
say I have the dream that Doctor Girard-Perregaux spoke about."
  
 
  Si chuckled. "A real buff, eh? You know, it's kind of funny. I was
never much interested in it. And I got a darn sight less interested
after my first run and I found out what space cafard was."
  
 
  She frowned. "I don't believe I know much about that."
  
 
  Sitting in the Kudos Room with the most beautiful girl to whom he had
ever talked, Si could be nonchalant about the subject. "Old Gubelin
keeps that angle mostly hushed up and out of the magazine and newspaper
articles. Says there's enough adverse publicity about space exploration
already. But at this stage of the game when the whole ship's crammed
tight with this automatic scientific apparatus and all, there's
precious little room in the conning tower and you're the only man
aboard. The Doc says later on when ships are bigger and there's a whole
flock of people aboard, there won't be any such thing as space cafard,
but...." Of a sudden the right side of Si Pond's mouth began to tic
and he hurriedly took up his drink and knocked it back.
  
 
 
