The gold watch idea had been that of Lofting Gubelin, which was
typical, he being in the way of a living anachronism himself. In fact,
Academician Gubelin was possibly the only living man on North America
who still wore spectacles. His explanation was that a phobia against
having his eyes touched prohibited either surgery to remould his
eyeballs and cure his myopia, or contact lenses.
  
 
  That was only an alibi so far as his closest associate, Hans
Girard-Perregaux, was concerned. Doctor Girard-Perregaux was convinced
Gubelin would have even worn facial hair, had he but a touch more
courage. Gubelin longed for yesteryear, a seldom found phenomenon under
the Ultrawelfare State.
  
 
  Slumped in an autochair in the escape room of his Floridian home,
Lofting Gubelin scowled at his friend. He said, acidly, "Any more
bright schemes, Hans? I presume you now acknowledge that appealing to
the cloddy's patriotism, sentiment and desire for public acclaim have
miserably failed."
  
 
  Girard-Perregaux said easily, "I wouldn't call Seymour Pond a cloddy.
In his position, I am afraid I would do the same thing he has."
  
 
  "That's nonsense, Hans. Zoroaster! Either you or I would gladly take
Pond's place were we capable of performing the duties for which he has
been trained. There aren't two men on North America—there aren't two
men in the world!—who better realize the urgency of continuing our
delving into space." Gubelin snapped his fingers. "Like that, either of
us would give our lives to prevent man from completely abandoning the
road to his destiny."
  
 
  His friend said drily, "Either of us could have volunteered for pilot
training forty years ago, Lofting. We didn't."
  
 
  "At that time there wasn't such a blistering percentage of funkers
throughout this whole blistering Ultrawelfare State! Who could
foresee that eventually our whole program would face ending due to
lack of courageous young men willing to take chances, willing to face
adventure, willing to react to the stimulus of danger in the manner our
ancestors did?"
  
 
  Girard-Perregaux grunted his sarcasm and dialed a glass of iced tea
and tequila. He said, "Nevertheless, both you and I conform with the
present generation in finding it far more pleasant to follow one's
way of life in the comfort of one's home than to be confronted with
the unpleasantness of facing nature's dangers in more adventurous
pastimes."
  
 
  Gubelin, half angry at his friend's argument, leaned forward to snap
rebuttal, but the other was wagging a finger at him negatively. "Face
reality, Lofting. Don't require or expect from Seymour Pond more
than is to be found there. He is an average young man. Born in our
Ultrawelfare State, he was guaranteed his fundamental womb-to-tomb
security by being issued that minimum number of Basic shares in our
society that allows him an income sufficient to secure the food,
clothing, shelter, medical care and education to sustain a low level
of subsistence. Percentages were against his ever being drafted
into industry. Automation being what it is, only a fraction of the
population is ever called up. But Pond was. His industrial aptitude
dossier revealed him a possible candidate for space pilot, and it was
you yourself who talked him into taking the training ... pointing out
the more pragmatic advantages such as complete retirement after but six
trips, added shares of Basic so that he could enjoy a more comfortable
life than most and the fame that would accrue to him as one of the
very few who still participate in travel to the planets. Very well.
He was sold. Took his training, which, of course, required long years
of drudgery to him. Then, performing his duties quite competently, he
made his six trips. He is now legally eligible for retirement. He was
drafted into the working force reserves, served his time, and is now
free from toil for the balance of his life. Why should he listen to
our pleas for a few more trips?"
  
 
  "But has he no spirit of adventure? Has he no feeling for...."
  
