The next morning Charlie said good-bye in our room. He rubbed his
scarred face nervously as he cleared his throat with a series of thin,
tight coughs.
  
 
  Then he pointed to a brown, faded tin box lying on the bed. "I'm
leavin' that for you. It's full of old stuff, souvenirs mostly. Thought
maybe you'd like to have 'em."
  
 
  I scowled, not understanding. "Why, Charlie? What for?"
  
 
  He shrugged as if afraid he might be accused of sentimentality. "Oh,
it's just that I've been dodgin' meteors now for twenty-five years.
That's a long time, boy. Ain't one spaceman in a thousand that lucky.
Some of these days, I won't be so lucky."
  
 
  I tried to laugh. "You're good for another twenty-five years, Charlie."
  
 
  He shook his head stiffly, staring at nothing. "Maybe. Anyway, I'm
gonna get off the Shuttle this time, make one more trip to Mars. Tell
you what. There's a little stone cafe on Mars, the
   
   Space Rat
   
  , just
off Chandler Field on the Grand Canal. When you get to Mars, take a
look inside. I'll probably be there."
  
 
  He coughed again, a deep, rasping cough that filled his eyes with tears.
  
 
  "Not used to this Earth air," he muttered. "What I need's some Martian
climate."
  
 
  Suddenly that cough frightened me. It didn't seem normal. I wondered,
too, about his stiff movements and glassy stare. It was as if he were
drugged.
  
 
  I shook the thought away. If Charlie was sick, he wouldn't talk about
going to Mars. The medics wouldn't let him go even as far as Luna.
  
 
  We watched him leave, you and Mickey and I.
  
 
  "When will you be back?" you asked.
  
 
  Charlie's hard face contorted itself into a gargoylish grin. "Maybe a
couple of months, maybe a couple of years. You know spacemen."
  
 
  Then he waved and strode away, a strange, gray, withered gnome of a man.
  
 
  I wanted him to say something, to tell me the secret that would kill
the doubt worming through my brain.
  
 
  But he rounded a corner, still grinning and waving, and then he was
gone.
  
