Mickey Cameron, sitting next to me, dug an elbow into my ribs. "I don't
see 'em, Ben," he whispered. "Where do you suppose they are?"
  
 
  I blinked. "Who?"
  
 
  "My folks."
  
 
  That was something I didn't have to worry about. My parents had died in
a strato-jet crash when I was four, so I hadn't needed many of those
"You are cordially invited" cards. Just one, which I'd sent to Charlie
Taggart.
  
 
  Stardust Charlie, we called him, although I never knew why. He was a
veteran of Everson's first trip to the Moon nearly twenty-five years
ago, and he was still at it. He was Chief Jetman now on the
   
   Lunar
Lady
   
  , a commercial ore ship on a shuttle between Luna City and White
Sands.
  
 
  I remembered how, as a kid, I'd pestered him in the Long Island
Spaceport, tagging after him like a puppy, and how he'd grown to like
me until he became father, mother, and buddy all in one to me. And I
remembered, too, how his recommendation had finally made me a cadet.
  
 
  My gaze wandered over the faces, but I couldn't find Charlie's. It
wasn't surprising. The
   
   Lunar Lady
   
  was in White Sands now, but
liberties, as Charlie said, were as scarce as water on Mars.
  
 
 
   It doesn't matter
   
  , I told myself.
  
 
  Then Mickey stiffened. "I see 'em, Ben! There in the fifth row!"
  
 
  Usually Mickey was the same whether in a furnace-hot engine room or a
garden party, smiling, accepting whatever the world offered. But now a
tenseness and an excitement had gripped even him. I was grateful that
he was beside me; we'd been a good team during those final months at
the Academy and I knew we'd be a good team in space. The Universe was
mighty big, but with two of us to face it together, it would be only
half as big.
  
 
  And then it seemed that all the proud faces were looking at us as if we
were gods. A shiver went through my body. Though it was daytime, I saw
the stars in my mind's vision, the great shining balls of silver, each
like a voice crying out and pleading to be explored, to be touched by
the sons of Earth.
  
 
 
   They expect a lot from us. They expect us to make a new kind of
civilization and a better place out of Earth. They expect all this and
a hell of a lot more. They think there's nothing we can't do.
   
 
 
  I felt very small and very humble. I was scared. Damned scared.
  
