"Captain Gwayne, may I present your former friend, Captain Hennessy?"
Barker said. There was a grin on the doctor's lips, but his face was
taut with strain.
  
 
  The creature nodded slowly and drew something from the thick hair on
its head. It was the golden comet of a captain.
  
 
  "He never meant to hurt the kids—just to talk to them," Barker cut in
quickly. "I've got some of the story. He's changed. He can't talk very
well. Says they've had to change the language around to make the sounds
fit, and he's forgotten how to use what normal English he can. But it
gets easier as you listen. It's Hennessy, all right. I'm certain."
  
 
  Gwayne had his own ideas on that. It was easy for an alien to seize
on the gold ornament of a captive earthman, even to learn a little
English, maybe. But Hennessy had been his friend.
  
 
  "How many barmaids in the Cheshire Cat? How many pups did your oldest
kid's dog have? How many were brown?"
  
 
  The lips contorted into something vaguely like a smile, and the
curiously shaped fingers that could handle no human-designed equipment
spread out.
  
 
  Three. Seven. Zero.
  
 
  The answers were right.
  
 
  By the time the session was over, Gwayne had begun to understand the
twisted speech from inhuman vocal cords better. But the story took a
long time telling.
  
 
  When it was finished, Gwayne and Barker sat for long minutes in
silence. Finally Gwayne drew a shuddering breath and stood up. "Is it
possible, Doc?"
  
 
  "No," Barker said flatly. He spread his hands and grimaced. "No. Not
by what I know. But it happened. I've looked at a few tissues under
the microscope. The changes are there. It's hard to believe about
their kids. Adults in eight years, but they stay shorter. It can't be
a hereditary change—the things that affect the body don't change the
germ plasm. But in this case, what changed Hennessy is real, so maybe
the fact that the change is passed on is as real as he claims."
  
 
  Gwayne led the former Hennessy to the exit. The waiting blobs dropped
down to touch the monstrous man, then leaped up again. The crowd of
monsters began moving forward toward their leader. A few were almost as
tall as Hennessy, but most were not more than five feet high.
  
 
  The kids of the exploring party....
  
