The arms were thin and grotesque below the massively distorted
shoulders, but amazingly strong. Gwayne felt them wrench at him as his
hands locked on the thick throat. A stench of alien flesh was in his
nose as the thing fell backwards. Doc Barker had hit it seconds after
the captain's attack. Its head hit rocky ground with a dull, heavy
sound, and it collapsed. Gwayne eased back slowly, but it made no
further move, though it was still breathing.
  
 
  Another jeep had drawn up, and men were examining the cadets. Pinelli
was either laughing or crying, and Kaufman was trying to break free to
kick at the monster. But neither had been harmed. The two were loaded
onto a jeep while men helped Barker and Gwayne stow the bound monster
on another before heading back.
  
 
  "No sign of skull fracture. My God, what a tough brute!" Barker shook
his own head, as if feeling the shock of the monster's landing.
  
 
  "I hope so," Gwayne told him. "I want that thing to live—and you're
detailed to save it and revive it. Find out if it can make sign
language or draw pictures. I want to know what happened to Hennessy
and why that ship was buried against detection. This thing may be the
answer."
  
 
  Barker nodded grimly. "I'll try, though I can't risk drugs on an alien
metabolism." He sucked in on the cigarette he'd dug out, then spat
sickly. Smoke and this air made a foul combination. "Bob, it still
makes no sense. We've scoured this planet by infra-red, and there was
no sign of native villages or culture. We should have found some."
  
 
  "Troglodytes, maybe," Gwayne guessed. "Anyhow, send for me when you get
anything. I've got to get this ship back to Earth. We're overstaying
our time here already."
  
 
  The reports from the cadets were satisfactory enough. They'd been
picked up and carried, but no harm had been done them. Now they were
busy being little heroes. Gwayne sentenced them to quarters as soon
as he could, knowing their stories would only get wilder and less
informative with retelling.
  
 
  If they could get any story from the captured creature, they might save
time and be better off than trying to dig through Hennessy's ship. That
was almost certainly spoorless by now. The only possible answer seemed
to be that the exploring expedition and Hennessy's rescue group had
been overcome by the aliens.
  
 
  It was an answer, but it left a lot of questions. How could the
primitives have gotten to the men inside Hennessy's ship? Why was its
fuel dumped? Only men would have known how to do that. And who told
these creatures that a space ship's metal finders could be fooled by a
little more than a hundred feet of solid rock? They'd buried the ship
cunningly, and only the accidental slippage had undone their work.
  
 
  Maybe there would never be a full answer, but he had to find
something—and find it fast. Earth needed every world she could make
remotely habitable, or mankind was probably doomed to extinction.
  
