"Get the jeeps out!" Gwayne yelled at Jane. He yanked the door of
the little officers' lift open and jabbed the down button. It was
agonizingly slow, but faster than climbing down. He ripped the door
back at the exit deck. Men were dashing in, stumbling around in
confusion. But someone was taking over now—one of the crew women. The
jeeps were lining up. One, at the front, was stuttering into life, and
Gwayne dashed for it as the exit port slid back.
  
 
  There was no time for suits or helmets. The air on the planet was
irritating and vile smelling, but it could be breathed. He leaped to
the seat, to see that the driver was Doctor Barker. At a gesture, the
jeep rolled down the ramp, grinding its gears into second as it picked
up speed. The other two followed.
  
 
  There was no sign of the cadets at first. Then Gwayne spotted them;
surrounded by the menacing horde. Seen from here, the things looked
horrible in a travesty of manhood.
  
 
  The huge leader suddenly waved and pointed toward the jeeps that were
racing toward him. He made a fantastic leap backwards. Others swung
about, two of them grabbing up the cadets. The jeep was doing twenty
miles an hour now, but the horde began to increase the distance, in
spite of the load of the two struggling boys! The creatures dived
downward into lower ground, beginning to disappear into the mists.
  
 
  "Follow the blobs," Gwayne yelled. He realized now he'd been a fool to
leave his suit; the radio would have let him keep in contact with the
kids. But it was too late to go back.
  
 
  The blobs danced after the horde. Barker bounced the jeep downward into
a gorge. Somewhere the man had learned to drive superlatively; but he
had to slow as the fog thickened lower down.
  
 
  Then it cleared to show the mob of creatures doubling back on their own
trail to confuse the pursuers.
  
 
  There was no time to stop. The jeep plowed through them. Gwayne had a
glimpse of five-foot bodies tumbling out of the way. Monstrously coarse
faces were half hidden by thick hair. A spear crunched against the
windshield from behind, and Gwayne caught it before it could foul the
steering wheel. It had a wickedly beautiful point of stone.
  
 
  The creatures vanished as Barker fought to turn to follow them. The
other jeeps were coming up, by the sound of their motors, but too late
to help. They'd have to get to the group with the cadets in a hurry or
the horde would all vanish in the uneven ground, hidden by the fog.
  
 
  A blob dropped down, almost touching Gwayne.
  
 
  He threw up an instinctive hand. There was a tingling as the creature
seemed to pass around it. It lifted a few inches and drifted off.
  
 
  Abruptly, Barker's foot ground at the brake. Gwayne jolted forward
against the windshield, just as he made out the form of the eight-foot
leader. The thing was standing directly ahead of him, a cadet on each
shoulder.
  
 
  The wheels locked and the jeep slid protestingly forward. The creature
leaped back. But Gwayne was out of the jeep before it stopped, diving
for the figure. It dropped the boys with a surprised grunt.
  
