He turned to the port to stare out at the planet. The Sol-type sun
must be rising, since there was a dim light. But the thick clouds that
wrapped the entire world diffused its rays into a haze. For a change,
it wasn't raining, though the ground was covered by thick swirls of
fog. In the distance, the tops of shrubs that made a scrub forest
glowed yellow-green. Motions around them suggested a herd of feeding
animals. Details were impossible to see through the haze. Even the
deep gorge where they'd found Hennessy's carefully buried ship was
completely hidden by the fog.
  
 
  There were three of the blobs dancing about over the grazing animals
now, as they often seemed to do. Gwayne stared at them for a minute,
trying to read sense into the things. If he had time to study them....
  
 
  But there was no time.
  
 
  Earth had ordered him to detour here, after leaving his load of
deep-sleep stored colonists on Official World 71, to check on any sign
of Hennessy. He'd been here a week longer than he should have stayed
already. If there was no sign in another day or so of what had happened
to the men who'd deserted their ship and its equipment, he'd have to
report back.
  
 
  He would have left before, if a recent landslip hadn't exposed enough
of the buried ship for his metal locators to spot from the air by
luck. It had obviously been hidden deep enough to foil the detectors
originally.
  
 
  "Bob!" Jane Corey's voice cut through his pondering. "Bob, there are
the kids!"
  
 
  Before he could swing to follow her pointing finger, movement caught
his eye.
  
 
  The blobs had left the herd. Now the three were streaking at fantastic
speed to a spot near the ship, to hover excitedly above something that
moved there.
  
 
  He saw the two cadets then, heading back to the waiting ship, just
beyond the movement he'd seen through the mist.
  
 
  Whatever was making the fog swirl must have reached higher ground.
Something began to heave upwards. It was too far to see clearly, but
Gwayne grabbed the microphone, yelling into the radio toward the cadets.
  
 
  They must have seen whatever it was just as the call reached them.
Young Kaufman grabbed at Pinelli, and they swung around together.
  
 
  Then the mists cleared.
  
 
  Under the dancing blobs, a horde of things was heading for the cadets.
Shaggy heads, brute bodies vaguely man-like! One seemed to be almost
eight feet tall, leading the others directly toward the spacesuited
cadets. Some of the horde were carrying spears or sticks. There was a
momentary halt, and then the leader lifted one arm, as if motioning the
others forward.
  
