 
  Spawning Ground
  
 
  By LESTER DEL REY
  
 
  They weren't human. They were something
   
  more—and something less—they were,
   
  in short, humanity's hopes for survival!
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Worlds of If Science Fiction, September 1961.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  The Starship
   
   Pandora
   
  creaked and groaned as her landing pads settled
unevenly in the mucky surface of the ugly world outside. She seemed to
be restless to end her fool's errand here, two hundred light years from
the waiting hordes on Earth. Straining metal plates twanged and echoed
through her hallways.
  
 
  Captain Gwayne cursed and rolled over, reaching for his boots. He was
a big, rawboned man, barely forty; but ten years of responsibility
had pressed down his shoulders and put age-feigning hollows under his
reddened eyes. The starlanes between Earth and her potential colonies
were rough on the men who traveled them now. He shuffled toward the
control room, grumbling at the heavy gravity.
  
 
  Lieutenant Jane Corey looked up, nodding a blonde head at him as he
moved toward the ever-waiting pot of murky coffee. "Morning, Bob. You
need a shave."
  
 
  "Yeah." He swallowed the hot coffee without tasting it, then ran a
hand across the dark stubble on his chin. It could wait. "Anything new
during the night?"
  
 
  "About a dozen blobs held something like a convention a little ways
north of us. They broke up about an hour ago and streaked off into the
clouds." The blobs were a peculiarity of this planet about which nobody
knew anything. They looked like overgrown fireballs, but seemed to have
an almost sentient curiosity about anything moving on the ground. "And
our two cadets sneaked out again. Barker followed them, but lost them
in the murk. I've kept a signal going to guide them back."
  
 
  Gwayne swore softly to himself. Earth couldn't turn out enough starmen
in the schools, so promising kids were being shipped out for training
as cadets on their twelfth birthday. The two he'd drawn, Kaufman and
Pinelli, seemed to be totally devoid of any sense of caution.
  
 
  Of course there was no obvious need for caution here. The blobs hadn't
seemed dangerous, and the local animals were apparently all herbivorous
and harmless. They were ugly enough, looking like insects in spite of
their internal skeletons, with anywhere from four to twelve legs each
on their segmented bodies. None acted like dangerous beasts.
  
 
  But
   
   something
   
  had happened to the exploration party fifteen years
back, and to the more recent ship under Hennessy that was sent to check
up.
  
