Back in the control room, Gwayne found the emergency release levers,
set the combinations and pressed the studs. There was a hiss and gurgle
as the great tanks of fuel discharged their contents out onto the
ground where no ingenuity could ever recover it to bring life to the
ship again.
  
 
  He'd have to tell the men and women of the crew later, after he'd had
time to organize things and present it all in a way they could accept,
however much they might hate it at first. But there was no putting off
giving the gist of it to Jane.
  
 
  "It was the blobs," he summarized it. "They seem to be amused by men.
They don't require anything from us, but they like us around. Hennessy
doesn't know why. They can change our cells, adapt us. Before men came,
all life here had twelve legs. Now they're changing that, as we've seen.
  
 
  "And they don't have to be close to do it. We've all been outside the
hull. It doesn't show yet—but we're changed. In another month, Earth
food would kill us. We've got to stay here. We'll bury the ships deeper
this time, and Earth won't find us. They can't risk trying a colony
where three ships vanish, so we'll just disappear. And they'll never
know."
  
 
  Nobody would know. Their children—odd children who matured in eight
years—would be primitive savages in three generations. The Earth
tools would be useless, impossible for the hands so radically changed.
Nothing from the ship would last. Books could never be read by the new
eyes. And in time, Earth wouldn't even be a memory to this world.
  
 
  She was silent a long time, staring out of the port toward what must
now be her home. Then she sighed. "You'll need practice, but the others
don't know you as well as I do, Bob. I guess we can fix it so they'll
believe it all. And it's too late now. But we haven't really been
changed yet, have we?"
  
 
  "No," he admitted. Damn his voice! He'd never been good at lying. "No.
They have to touch us. I've been touched, but the rest could go back."
  
 
  She nodded. He waited for the condemnation, but there was only
puzzlement in her face. "Why?"
  
 
  And then, before he could answer, her own intelligence gave her the
same answer he had found for himself. "The spawning ground!"
  
 
  It was the only thing they could do. Earth needed a place to plant her
seed, but no world other than Earth could ever be trusted to preserve
that seed for generation after generation. Some worlds already were
becoming uncertain.
  
 
  Here, though, the blobs had adapted men to the alien world instead of
men having to adapt the whole planet to their needs. Here, the strange
children of man's race could grow, develop and begin the long trek back
to civilization. The gadgets would be lost for a time. But perhaps
some of the attitudes of civilized man would remain to make the next
rise to culture a better one.
  
 
  "We're needed here," he told her, his voice pleading for the
understanding he couldn't yet fully give himself. "These people need
as rich a set of bloodlines as possible to give the new race strength.
The fifty men and women on this ship will be needed to start them with
a decent chance. We can't go to Earth, where nobody would believe or
accept the idea—or even let us come back. We have to stay here."
  
 
  She smiled then and moved toward him, groping for his strength. "Be
fruitful," she whispered. "Be fruitful and spawn and replenish an
earth."
  
 
  "No," he told her. "Replenish the stars."
  
 
  But she was no longer listening, and that part of his idea could wait.
  
 
  Some day, though, their children would find a way to the starlanes
again, looking for other worlds. With the blobs to help them, they
could adapt to most worlds. The unchanged spirit would lead them
through all space, and the changing bodies would claim worlds beyond
numbering.
  
 
  Some day, the whole universe would be a spawning ground for the
children of men!
  
