The race had blundered safely through its discovery of atomic weapons
into a peace that had lasted two hundred years. It had managed to
prevent an interplanetary war with the Venus colonists. It had found
a drive that led to the stars, and hadn't even found intelligent life
there to be dangerous on the few worlds that had cultures of their own.
  
 
  But forty years ago, observations from beyond the Solar System had
finally proved that the sun was going to go nova.
  
 
  It wouldn't be much of an explosion, as such things go—but it would
render the whole Solar System uninhabitable for millenia. To survive,
man had to colonize.
  
 
  And there were no worlds perfect for him, as Earth had been. The
explorers went out in desperation to find what they could; the
terraforming teams did what they could. And then the big starships
began filling worlds with colonists, carried in deep sleep to conserve
space.
  
 
  Almost eighty worlds. The nearest a four month journey from Earth and
four more months back.
  
 
  In another ten years, the sun would explode, leaving man only on the
footholds he was trying to dig among other solar systems. Maybe some
of the strange worlds would let men spread his seed again. Maybe none
would be spawning grounds for mankind in spite of the efforts. Each was
precious as a haven for the race.
  
 
  If this world could be used, it would be nearer than most. If not, as
it now seemed, no more time could be wasted here.
  
 
  Primitives could be overcome, maybe. It would be ruthless and unfair to
strip them of their world, but the first law was survival.
  
 
  But how could primitives do what these must have done?
  
 
  He studied the spear he had salvaged. It was on a staff made of
cemented bits of smaller wood from the scrub growth, skillfully
laminated. The point was of delicately chipped flint, done as no human
hand had been able to do for centuries.
  
 
  "Beautiful primitive work," he muttered.
  
 
  Jane pulled the coffee cup away from her lips and snorted. "You can
see a lot more of it out there," she suggested.
  
 
  He went to the port and glanced out. About sixty of the things were
squatting in the clearing fog, holding lances and staring at the ship.
They were perhaps a thousand yards away, waiting patiently. For what?
For the return of their leader—or for something that would give the
ship to them?
  
 
  Gwayne grabbed the phone and called Barker. "How's the captive coming?"
  
 
  Barker's voice sounded odd.
  
 
  "Physically fine. You can see him. But—"
  
 
  Gwayne dropped the phone and headed for the little sick bay. He swore
at Doc for not calling him at once, and then at himself for not
checking up sooner. Then he stopped at the sound of voices.
  
 
  There was the end of a question from Barker and a thick, harsh growling
sound that lifted the hair along the nape of Gwayne's neck. Barker
seemed to understand, and was making a comment as the captain dashed in.
  
 
  The captive was sitting on the bunk, unbound and oddly unmenacing. The
thick features were relaxed and yet somehow intent. He seemed to make
some kind of a salute as he saw Gwayne enter, and his eyes burned up
unerringly toward the device on the officer's cap.
  
 
  "Haarroo, Cabbaan!" the thing said.
  
