
*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STALEMATE IN SPACE ***
  
  Stalemate In Space
  
 
  By CHARLES L. HARNESS
  
 
  Two mighty metal globes clung in a murderous
   
  death-struggle, lashing out with flames of poison.
   
  Yet deep in their twisted, radioactive wreckage
   
  the main battle raged—where a girl swayed
   
  sensuously before her conqueror's mocking eyes.
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Planet Stories Summer 1949.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  At first there was only the voice, a monotonous murmur in her ears.
  
 
  "
   
   Die now—die now—die now
   
  —"
  
 
  Evelyn Kane awoke, breathing slowly and painfully. The top of the
cubicle was bulging inward on her chest, and it seemed likely that a
rib or two was broken. How long ago? Years? Minutes? She had no way of
knowing. Her slender right hand found the oxygen valve and turned it.
For a long while she lay, hurting and breathing helplessly.
  
 
  "
   
   Die now—die now—die now
   
  —"
  
 
  The votron had awakened her with its heart-breaking code message, and
it was her duty to carry out its command. Nine years after the great
battle globes had crunched together the mentors had sealed her in this
tiny cell, dormant, unwaking, to be livened only when it was certain
her countrymen had either definitely won—or lost.
  
 
  The votron's telepathic dirge chronicled the latter fact. She had
expected nothing else.
  
 
  She had only to find the relay beside her cot, press the key that would
set in motion gigantic prime movers in the heart of the great globe,
and the conquerors would join the conquered in the wide and nameless
grave of space.
  
 
  But life, now doled out by the second, was too delicious to abandon
immediately. Her mind, like that of a drowning person, raced hungrily
over the memories of her past.
  
 
  For twenty years, in company with her great father, she had watched
   
   The Defender
   
  grow from a vast metal skeleton into a planet-sized
battle globe. But it had not grown fast enough, for when the Scythian
globe,
   
   The Invader
   
  , sprang out of black space to enslave the budding
Terran Confederacy,
   
   The Defender
   
  was unfinished, half-equipped, and
undermanned.
  
 
  The Terrans could only fight for time and hope for a miracle.
  
 
 
   The Defender
   
  , commanded by her father, Gordon, Lord Kane, hurled
itself from its orbit around Procyon and met
   
   The Invader
   
  with giant
fission torpedoes.
  
 
  And then, in an intergalactic proton storm beyond the Lesser Magellanic
Cloud, the globes lost their bearings and collided. Hordes of brute-men
poured through the crushed outer armor of the stricken
   
   Defender
   
  .
  
 
  The prone woman stirred uneasily. Here the images became unreal
and terrible, with the recurrent vision of death. It had taken the
Scythians nine years to conquer
   
   The Defender's
   
  outer shell. Then had
come that final interview with her father.
  
 
  "In half an hour our last space port will be captured," he had
telepathed curtly. "Only one more messenger ship can leave
   
   The
Defender
   
  . Be on it."
  
 
  "No. I shall die here."
  
 
  His fine tired eyes had studied her face in enigmatic appraisal. "Then
die usefully. The mentors are trying to develop a force that will
destroy both globes in the moment of our inevitable defeat. If they are
successful, you will have the task of pressing the final button of the
battle."
  
 
  "There's an off-chance you may survive," countered a mentor. "We're
also working on a means for your escape—not only because you are
Gordon's daughter, but because this great proton storm will prevent
radio contact with Terra for years, and we want someone to escape with
our secret if and when our experiments prove successful."
  
 
  "But you must expect to die," her father had warned with gentle
finality.
  
 
  She clenched her fingernails vehemently into her palms and wrenched
herself back to the present.
  
 
  That time had come.
  
 
  With some effort she worked herself out of the crumpled bed and lay on
the floor of her little cubicle, panting and holding her chest with
both hands. The metal floor was very cold. Evidently the enemy torpedo
fissionables had finally broken through to the center portions of the
ship, letting in the icy breath of space. Small matter. Not by freezing
would she die.
  
 
  She reached out her hand, felt for the all-important key, and gasped in
dismay. The mahogany box containing the key had burst its metal bonds
and was lying on its side. The explosion that had crushed her cubicle
had been terrific.
  
 
  With a gurgle of horror she snapped on her wrist luminar and examined
the interior of the box.
  
 
  It was a shattered ruin.
  
