Her heart was beating faster as she walked down the hall. She felt a
very strong probe flooding over her brain casually, palping with mild
interest the artificial memories she supplied: Escapades with officers
in the combat areas. Reprimands. Demotion and transfer. Her deception
of Gorph. Her anticipation of meeting a real Viscount and hoping he
would let her dance for him.
  
 
  The questing probe withdrew as idly as it had come, and she breathed
a sigh of relief. She could not hope to deceive a suspicious telepath
for long. Perat was merely amused at her "lie" to his under-supervisor.
He had accepted her at her own face value, as supplied by her false
memories.
  
 
  She opened the door to the balcony and saw a man leaning moodily on the
balustrade. He gave no immediate notice of her presence.
  
 
  The five hundred and sixth heir of Tharn was of uncertain age, as were
most of the men of both globes. Only the left side of his face could be
seen. It was gaunt and leathery, and a deep thin scar lifted the corner
of his mouth into a satanic smile. A faint paunch was gathering at his
abdomen, as befitted a warrior turned to boring paper work. His closely
cut black hair and the two sparkling red-gemmed rings—apparently
identical—on his right hand seemed to denote a certain fastidiousness
and unconscious superiority. To Evelyn the jeweled fingers bespoke an
unnatural contrast to the past history of the man and were symptomatic
of a personality that could find stimulation only in strange and cruel
pleasures.
  
 
  In alarm she suddenly realized that she had inadvertently let her
appraisal penetrate her uncovered conscious mind, and that this probe
was there awaiting it.
  
 
  "You are right," he said coldly, still staring into the court below.
"Now that the long battle is over, there is little left to divert me."
  
 
  He pushed the Faeg across the coping toward her. "Take this."
  
 
  He had not as yet looked at her.
  
 
  She crossed the balcony, simultaneously grasping the pistol he offered
her and looking down into the courtyard. There seemed to be nearly
twenty Terrans lying about, in pools of their own blood.
  
 
  Only one man, a Terran officer of very high rank—was left standing.
His arms were folded somberly across his chest, and he studied the
killer above him almost casually. But when the woman came out, their
eyes met, and he started imperceptibly.
  
 
  Evelyn Kane felt a horrid chill creeping over her. The man's hair was
white, now, and his proud face lined with deep furrows, but there could
be no mistake. It was Gordon, Lord Kane.
  
 
  Her father.
  
 
  The sweat continued to grow on her forehead, and she felt for a moment
that she needed only to wish hard enough, and this would be a dream.
A dream of a big, kind, dark-haired man with laugh-wrinkles about his
eyes, who sat her on his knee when she was a little girl and read
bedtime stories to her from a great book with many pictures.
  
 
  An icy, amused voice came through: "Our orders are to kill all
prisoners. It is entertaining to shoot down helpless men, isn't it? It
warms me to know that I am cruel and wanton, and worthy of my trust."
  
 
  Even in the midst of her horror, a cold, analytical part of her was
explaining why the Commandant had called her to the balcony. Because
all captured Terrans had to be killed, he hated his superiors, his own
men, and especially the prisoners. A task so revolting he could not
relegate to his own officers. He must do it himself, but he wanted his
underlings to know he loathed them for it. She was merely a symbol of
that contempt. His next words did not surprise her.
  
 
  "It is even more stimulating to require a shuddering female to kill
them. You are shuddering you know?"
  
 
  She nodded dumbly. Her palm was so wet that a drop of sweat dropped
from it to the floor. She was thinking hard. She could kill the
Commandant and save her father for a little while. But then the
problem of detonating the pile remained, and it would not be solved
more quickly by killing the man who controlled the pile area. On the
contrary if she could get him interested in her—
  
 
  "So far as our records indicate," murmured Perat, "the man down there
is the last living Terran within
   
   The Defender
   
  . It occurred to me that
our newest clerk would like to start off her duties with a bang. The
Faeg is adjusted to a needle-beam. If you put a bolt between the man's
eyes, you may dance for me tonight, and perhaps there will be other
nights—"
  
 
  The woman seemed lost in thought for a long time. Slowly, she lifted
the ugly little weapon. The doomed Terran looked up at her peacefully,
without expression. She lowered the Faeg, her arm trembling.
  
 
  Gordon, Lord Kane, frowned faintly, then closed his eyes. She raised
the gun again, drew cross hairs with a nerveless wrist, and squeezed
the trigger. There was a loud, hollow cough, but no recoil. The Terran
officer, his eyes still closed and arms folded, sank to the ground,
face up. Blood was running from a tiny hole in his forehead.
  
 
  The man leaning on the balustrade turned and looked at Evelyn, at first
with amused contempt, then with narrowing, questioning eyes.
  
 
  "Come here," he ordered.
  
 
  The Faeg dropped from her hand. With a titanic effort she activated her
legs and walked toward him.
  
 
  He was studying her face very carefully.
  
 
  She felt that she was going to be sick. Her knees were so weak that she
had to lean on the coping.
  
 
  With a forefinger he lifted up the mass of golden curls that hung
over her right forehead and examined the scar hidden there, where the
mentors had cut into her frontal lobe. The tiny doll they had created
for her writhed uneasily in her waist-purse, but Perat seemed to be
thinking of something else, and missed the significance of the scar
completely.
  
 
  He dropped his hand. "I'm sorry," he said with a quiet weariness. "I
shouldn't have asked you to kill the Terran. It was a sorry joke."
Then: "Have you ever seen me before?"
  
 
  "No," she whispered hoarsely. His mind was in hers, verifying the fact.
  
 
  "Have you ever met my father, Phaen, the old Count of Tharn?"
  
 
  "No."
  
 
  "Do you have a son?"
  
 
  "No."
  
 
  His mind was out of hers again, and he had turned moodily back,
surveying the courtyard and the dead. "Gorph will be wondering what
happened to you. Come to my quarters at the eighth metron tonight."
  
 
  Apparently he suspected nothing.
  
 
 
   Father. Father. I had to do it. But we'll all join you, soon. Soon.
   
 
 
 
  III
  
 
  Perat lay on his couch, sipping cold purple
   
   terif
   
  and following the
thinly-clad dancer with narrowed eyes. Music, soft and subtle, floated
from his communications box, illegally tuned to an officer's club
somewhere. Evelyn made the rhythm part of her as she swayed slowly on
tiptoe.
  
 
  For the last thirty "nights"—the hours allotted to rest and sleep—it
had been thus. By "day" she probed furtively into the minds of the
office staff, memorizing area designations, channels for official
messages, and the names and authorizations of occupational field crews.
By night she danced for Perat, who never took his eyes from her, nor
his probe from her mind. While she danced it was not too difficult to
elude the probe. There was an odd autohypnosis in dancing that blotted
out memory and knowledge.
  
 
  "Enough for now," he ordered. "Careful of your rib."
  
 
  When he had first seen the bandages on her bare chest, that first
night, she had been ready with a memory of dancing on a freshly waxed
floor, and of falling.
  
 
  Perat seemed to be debating with himself as she sat down on her own
couch to rest. He got up, unlocked his desk, and drew out a tiny reel
of metal wire, which Evelyn recognized as being feed for an amateur
stereop projector. He placed the reel in a projector that had been
installed in the wall, flicked off the table luminar, and both of them
waited in the dark, breathing rather loudly.
  
 
  Suddenly the center of the room was bright with a ball of light some
two feet in diameter, and inside the luminous sphere were an old man, a
woman, and a little boy of about four years. They were walking through
a luxurious garden, and then they stopped, looked up, and waved gaily.
  
 
  Evelyn studied the trio with growing wonder. The old man and the boy
were complete strangers.
   
   But the woman—!
   
 
 
  "That is Phaen, my father," said Perat quietly. "He stayed at home
because he hated war. And that is a path in our country estate on
Tharn-R-VII. The little boy I fail to recognize, beyond a general
resemblance to the Tharn line.
  
 
  "But—
   
   can you deny that you are the woman
   
  ?"
  
 
  The stereop snapped off, and she sat wordless in the dark.
  
 
  "There seemed to be some similarity—" she admitted. Her throat was
suddenly dry. Yet, why should she be alarmed? She really didn't know
the woman.
  
 
  The table luminar was on now, and Perat was prowling hungrily about the
room, his scar twisting his otherwise handsome face into a snarling
scowl.
  
 
  "Similarity! Bah! That loop of hair over her right forehead hid a scar
identical to yours. I have had the individual frames analyzed!"
  
 
  Evelyn's hands knotted unconsciously. She forced her body to relax, but
her mind was racing. This introduced another variable to be controlled
in her plan for destruction. She
   
   must
   
  make it a known quantity.
  
 
  "Did your father send it to you?" she asked.
  
 
  "The day before you arrived here. It had been en route for months, of
course."
  
 
  "What did he say about it?"
  
 
  "He said, 'Your widow and son send greetings. Be of good cheer, and
accept our love.' What nonsense! He knows very well I'm not married and
that—well, if I have ever fathered any children, I don't know about
them."
  
 
  "Is that all he said?"
  
 
  "That's all, except that he included this ring." He pulled one of the
duplicate jewels from his right middle finger and tossed it to her.
"It's identical to the one he had made for me when I entered on my
majority. For a long time it was thought that it was the only stone of
its kind on all the planets of the Tharn suns, a mineralogical freak,
but I guess he found another. But why should I want two of them?"
  
 
  Evelyn crossed the room and returned the ring.
  
 
  "Existence is so full of mysteries, isn't it?" murmured Perat.
"Sometimes it seems unfortunate that we must pass through a sentient
phase on our way to death. This foolish, foolish war. Maybe the old
count was right."
  
 
  "You could be courtmartialed for that."
  
 
  "Speaking of courtmartials, I've got to attend one tonight—an appeal
from a death sentence." He arose, smoothed his hair and clothes, and
poured another glass of
   
   terif
   
  . "Some fool inquisitor can't show
proper disposition of a woman prisoner."
  
 
  Evelyn's heart skipped a beat. "Indeed?"
  
 
  "The wretch insists that he could remember if we would just let him
alone. I suppose he took a bribe. You'll find one now and then who
tries for a little extra profit."
  
 
  She must absolutely not be seen by the condemned inquisitor. The
stimulus would almost certainly make him remember.
  
 
  "I'll wait for you," she said indifferently, thrusting her arms out in
a languorous yawn.
  
 
  "Very well." Perat stepped to the door, then turned and looked back at
her. "On the other hand, I may need a clerk. It's way after hours, and
the others have gone."
  
 
  Beneath a gesture of wry protest, she swallowed rapidly.
  
 
  "Perhaps you'd better come," insisted Perat.
  
 
  She stood up, unloosed her waist-purse, checked its contents swiftly,
and then followed him out.
  
 
  This might be a very close thing. From the purse she took a bottle of
perfume and rubbed her ear lobes casually.
  
 
  "Odd smell," commented Perat, wrinkling his nose.
  
 
  "Odd scent," corrected Evelyn cryptically. She was thinking about
the earnest faces of the mentors as they instructed her carefully in
the use of the "perfume." The adrenalin glands, they had explained,
provided a useful and powerful stimulant to a man in danger. Adrenalin
slowed the heart and digestion, increased the systole and blood
pressure, and increased perspiration to cool the skin. But there
could be too much of a good thing. An overdose of adrenalin, they had
pointed out, caused almost immediate edema. The lungs filled rapidly
with the serum and the victim ... drowned. The perfume she possessed
over-stimulated, in some unknown way, the adrenals of frightened
persons. It had no effect on inactive adrenals.
  
 
  The question remained—who would be the more frightened, she or the
condemned inquisitor?
  
 
  She was perspiring freely, and the blonde hair on her arms and neck was
standing stiffly when Perat opened the door for her and they entered
the Zone Provost's chambers.
  
