Evelyn was extremely careful with her mental probe as she descended
from the transport. The Occupational Commandant would undoubtedly
be high-born and telepathic. He must not have occasion to suspect a
similar ability in a mere clerk.
  
 
  Fighting had passed this way, too, and recently. Many of the buildings
were still smoking, and many of the radions high above were either
shot out or obscured by slowly drifting dust clouds. The acrid odor of
radiation-remover was everywhere.
  
 
  She caught the sound of spasmodic small-arm fire.
  
 
  "What is that?" she asked the transport attendant.
  
 
  "The Commandant is shooting prisoners," he replied laconically.
  
 
  "Oh."
  
 
  "Where did you want to go?"
  
 
  "To the personnel office."
  
 
  "That way." He pointed to the largest building of the group—two
stories high, reasonably intact.
  
 
  She walked off down the gravel path, which was stained here and there
with dark sticky red. She gave her visa to the guard at the door and
was admitted to an improvised waiting room, where another guard eyed
her stonily. The firing was much nearer. She recognized the obscene
coughs of a Faeg pistol and began to feel sick.
  
 
  A woman in the green uniform of the Scythe auxiliary came in, whispered
something to the guard, and then told Evelyn to follow her.
  
 
  In the anteroom a grey cat looked her over curiously, and Evelyn
frowned. She might have to get rid of the cat if she stayed here. Under
certain circumstances the animal could prove her deadliest enemy.
  
 
  The next room held a foppish little man, evidently a supervisor of some
sort, who was studying her visa.
  
 
  "I'm very happy to have you here, S'ria—ah—"—he looked at the visa
suspiciously—"S'ria Lyn. Do sit down. But, as I was just remarking to
S'ria Gerek, here"—he nodded to the other woman, who smiled back—"I
wish the field officers would make up their august minds as to whether
they want you or don't want you. Just why did they transfer you to
H.Q.?"
  
 
  She thought quickly. This pompous little ass would have to be given
some answer that would keep him from checking with the inquisitor. It
would have to be something personal. She looked at the false black in
his eyebrows and sideburns, and the artificial way in which he had
combed hair over his bald spot. She crossed her knees slowly, ignoring
the narrowing eyes of S'ria Gerek, and smoothed the back of her braided
yellow hair. He was studying her covertly.
  
 
  "The men in the fighting zones are uncouth, S'ria Gorph," she said
simply. "I was told that
   
   you
   
  , that is, I mean—"
  
 
  "Yes?" he was the soul of graciousness. S'ria Gerek began to dictate
loudly into her mechanical transcriber.
  
 
  Evelyn cleared her throat, averted her eyes, and with some effort,
managed a delicate flush. "I meant to say, I thought I would be happier
working for—working here. So I asked for a transfer."
  
 
  S'ria Gorph beamed. "Splendid. But the occupation isn't over, yet,
you know. There'll be hard work here for several weeks yet, before we
cut loose from the enemy globe. But you do your work well"—winking
artfully—"and I'll see that—"
  
 
  He stopped, and his face took on a hunted look of mingled fear and
anxiety. He appeared to listen.
  
 
  Evelyn tensed her mind to receive and deceive a mental probe. She was
certain now that the Zone Commandant was high-born and telepathic. The
chances were only fifty-fifty that she could delude him for any length
of time if he became interested in her. He must be avoided if at all
possible. It should not be too difficult. He undoubtedly had a dozen
personal secretaries and/or concubines and would take small interest in
the lowly employees that amused Gorph.
  
 
  Gorph looked at her uncertainly. "Perat, Viscount of the Tharn Suns,
sends you his compliments and wishes to see you on the balcony." He
pointed to a hallway. "All the way through there, across to the other
wing."
  
 
  As she left, she heard all sound in the room stop. The transcribing and
calculating machines trailed off into a watchful silence, and she could
feel the eyes of the men and women on her back. She noticed then that
the Faeg had ceased firing.
  
