 
  Tea Tray in the Sky
  
 
  By EVELYN E. SMITH
  
 
  Illustrated by ASHMAN
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Galaxy Science Fiction September 1952.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
 
   Visiting a society is tougher than being born
    
   into it. A 40 credit tour is no substitute!
   
 
 
 
  The picture changed on the illuminated panel that filled the forward
end of the shelf on which Michael lay. A haggard blonde woman sprawled
apathetically in a chair.
  
 
  "Rundown, nervous, hypertensive?" inquired a mellifluous voice. "In
need of mental therapy? Buy Grugis juice; it's not expensive. And they
swear by it on Meropé."
  
 
  A disembodied pair of hands administered a spoonful of Grugis juice to
the woman, whereupon her hair turned bright yellow, makeup bloomed on
her face, her clothes grew briefer, and she burst into a fast Callistan
clog.
  
 
  "I see from your hair that you have been a member of one of the
Brotherhoods," the passenger lying next to Michael on the shelf
remarked inquisitively. He was a middle-aged man, his dust-brown hair
thinning on top, his small blue eyes glittering preternaturally from
the lenses fitted over his eyeballs.
  
 
  Michael rubbed his fingers ruefully over the blond stubble on his scalp
and wished he had waited until his tonsure were fully grown before
he had ventured out into the world. But he had been so impatient to
leave the Lodge, so impatient to exchange the flowing robes of the
Brotherhood for the close-fitting breeches and tunic of the outer world
that had seemed so glamorous and now proved so itchy.
  
 
  "Yes," he replied courteously, for he knew the first rule of universal
behavior, "I have been a Brother."
  
 
  "Now why would a good-looking young fellow like you want to join a
Brotherhood?" his shelf companion wanted to know. "Trouble over a
female?"
  
 
  Michael shook his head, smiling. "No, I have been a member of the
Angeleno Brotherhood since I was an infant. My father brought me when
he entered."
  
 
  The other man clucked sympathetically. "No doubt he was grieved over
the death of your mother."
  
 
  Michael closed his eyes to shut out the sight of a baby protruding its
fat face at him three-dimensionally, but he could not shut out its
lisping voice: "Does your child refuse its food, grow wizened like a
monkey? It will grow plump with oh-so-good Mealy Mush from Nunki."
  
 
  "No, sir," Michael replied. "Father said that was one of the few
blessings that brightened an otherwise benighted life."
  
 
  Horror contorted his fellow traveller's plump features. "Be careful,
young man!" he warned. "Lucky for you that you are talking to someone
as broad-minded as I, but others aren't. You might be reported for
violating a tabu. An Earth tabu, moreover."
  
 
  "An Earth tabu?"
  
 
  "Certainly. Motherhood is sacred here on Earth and so, of course, in
the entire United Universe. You should have known that."
  
