Miss Carroll looked at him for a long moment. "Will what I tell you be
used against him?"
  
 
  "There'll be nothing done against him, Miss Carroll ... unless it needs
to be in the national interest."
  
 
  "I'm not at all sure I know what the term 'national interest' means,
James. I distrust these glib phrases."
  
 
  "I always liked Mr. Bram," said Tremaine. "I'm not out to hurt him."
  
 
  "Mr. Bram came here when I was a young woman. I'm not certain of the
year."
  
 
  "What does he do for a living?"
  
 
  "I have no idea."
  
 
  "Why did a healthy young fellow like Bram settle out in that isolated
piece of country? What's his story?"
  
 
  "I'm ... not sure that anyone truly knows Bram's story."
  
 
  "You called him 'Bram', Miss Carroll. Is that his first name ... or his
last?"
  
 
  "That is his only name. Just ... Bram."
  
 
  "You knew him well once, Miss Carroll. Is there anything—"
  
 
  A tear rolled down Miss Carroll's faded cheek. She wiped it away
impatiently.
  
 
  "I'm an unfulfilled old maid, James," she said. "You must forgive me."
  
 
  Tremaine stood up. "I'm sorry. Really sorry. I didn't mean to grill
you. Miss Carroll. You've been very kind. I had no right...."
  
 
  Miss Carroll shook her head. "I knew you as a boy, James. I have
complete confidence in you. If anything I can tell you about Bram will
be helpful to you, it is my duty to oblige you; and it may help him."
She paused. Tremaine waited.
  
 
  "Many years ago I was courted by Bram. One day he asked me to go with
him to his house. On the way he told me a terrible and pathetic tale.
He said that each night he fought a battle with evil beings, alone, in
a cave beneath his house."
  
 
  Miss Carroll drew a deep breath and went on. "I was torn between pity
and horror. I begged him to take me back. He refused." Miss Carroll
twisted her fingers together, her eyes fixed on the long past. "When
we reached the house, he ran to the kitchen. He lit a lamp and threw
open a concealed panel. There were stairs. He went down ... and left me
there alone.
  
 
  "I waited all that night in the carriage. At dawn he emerged. He tried
to speak to me but I would not listen.
  
 
  "He took a locket from his neck and put it into my hand. He told me to
keep it and, if ever I should need him, to press it between my fingers
in a secret way ... and he would come. I told him that until he would
consent to see a doctor, I did not wish him to call. He drove me home.
He never called again."
  
 
  "This locket," said Tremaine, "do you still have it?"
  
 
  Miss Carroll hesitated, then put her hand to her throat, lifted a
silver disc on a fine golden chain. "You see what a foolish old woman I
am, James."
  
 
  "May I see it?"
  
 
  She handed the locket to him. It was heavy, smooth. "I'd like to
examine this more closely," he said. "May I take it with me?"
  
 
  Miss Carroll nodded.
  
 
  "There is one other thing," she said, "perhaps quite meaningless...."
  
 
  "I'd be grateful for any lead."
  
 
  "Bram fears the thunder."
  
 
 
  III
  
 
  As Tremaine walked slowly toward the lighted main street of Elsby a car
pulled to a stop beside him. Jess leaned out, peered at Tremaine and
asked:
  
 
  "Any luck, Jimmy?"
  
 
  Tremaine shook his head. "I'm getting nowhere fast. The Bram idea's a
dud, I'm afraid."
  
 
  "Funny thing about Bram. You know, he hasn't showed up yet. I'm getting
a little worried. Want to run out there with me and take a look around?"
  
 
  "Sure. Just so I'm back by full dark."
  
 
  As they pulled away from the curb Jess said, "Jimmy, what's this about
State Police nosing around here? I thought you were playing a lone hand
from what you were saying to me."
  
 
  "I thought so too, Jess. But it looks like Grammond's a jump ahead of
me. He smells headlines in this; he doesn't want to be left out."
  
 
  "Well, the State cops could be mighty handy to have around. I'm
wondering why you don't want 'em in. If there's some kind of spy ring
working—"
  
 
  "We're up against an unknown quantity. I don't know what's behind this
and neither does anybody else. Maybe it's a ring of Bolsheviks ...
and maybe it's something bigger. I have the feeling we've made enough
mistakes in the last few years; I don't want to see this botched."
  
 
  The last pink light of sunset was fading from the clouds to the west as
Jess swung the car through the open gate, pulled up under the old trees
before the square-built house. The windows were dark. The two men got
out, circled the house once, then mounted the steps and rapped on the
door. There was a black patch of charred flooring under the window, and
the paint on the wall above it was bubbled. Somewhere a cricket set up
a strident chirrup, suddenly cut off. Jess leaned down, picked up an
empty shotgun shell. He looked at Tremaine. "This don't look good," he
said. "You suppose those fool boys...?"
  
 
  He tried the door. It opened. A broken hasp dangled. He turned to
Tremaine. "Maybe this is more than kid stuff," he said. "You carry a
gun?"
  
 
  "In the car."
  
 
  "Better get it."
  
 
  Tremaine went to the car, dropped the pistol in his coat pocket,
rejoined Jess inside the house. It was silent, deserted. In the kitchen
Jess flicked the beam of his flashlight around the room. An empty plate
lay on the oilcloth-covered table.
  
 
  "This place is empty," he said. "Anybody'd think he'd been gone a week."
  
 
  "Not a very cozy—" Tremaine broke off. A thin yelp sounded in the
distance.
  
 
  "I'm getting jumpy," said Jess. "Dern hounddog, I guess."
  
 
  A low growl seemed to rumble distantly. "What the devil's that?"
Tremaine said.
  
 
  Jess shone the light on the floor. "Look here," he said. The ring of
light showed a spatter of dark droplets all across the plank floor.
  
 
  "That's blood, Jess...." Tremaine scanned the floor. It was of broad
slabs, closely laid, scrubbed clean but for the dark stains.
  
 
  "Maybe he cleaned a chicken. This is the kitchen."
  
 
  "It's a trail." Tremaine followed the line of drops across the floor.
It ended suddenly near the wall.
  
 
  "What do you make of it. Jimmy?"
  
 
  A wail sounded, a thin forlorn cry, trailing off into silence. Jess
stared at Tremaine. "I'm too damned old to start believing in spooks,"
he said. "You suppose those damn-fool boys are hiding here, playing
tricks?"
  
 
  "I think." Tremaine said, "that we'd better go ask Hull Gaskin a few
questions."
  
