Jonathan leaped to his feet, dumping Ann to the ground. He jerked
around. All twenty-six of the girls were lined up on the path. Their
features were grim. He said: "I don't feel so well after all."
  
 
  "It don't wash," said Billy. "It's time for a showdown."
  
 
  Jonathan's hair stood on end. He felt rather than saw Ann Clotilde take
her stand beside him. He noticed that she was holding her spear at a
menacing angle. She said in an angry voice: "He's mine. I found him.
Leave him alone."
  
 
  "Where do you get that stuff?" cried Olga. "Share and share alike, say
I."
  
 
  "We could draw straws for him," suggested the green-eyed blonde.
  
 
  "Look here," Jonathan broke in. "I've got some say in the matter."
  
 
  "You have not," snapped Billy. "You'll do just as we say." She took a
step toward him.
  
 
  Jonathan edged away in consternation.
  
 
  "He's going to run!" Olga shouted.
  
 
  Jonathan never stopped until he was back in the canyon leading to the
plain. His nerves were jumping like fleas. He craved the soothing
relaxation of a smoke. There was, he remembered, a carton of cigarettes
at the wreck. He resumed his flight, but at a more sober pace.
  
 
  At the spot where he and Ann had first crawled away from the centaurs,
he scrambled out of the gulley, glanced in the direction of his space
ship. He blinked his eyes, stared. Then he waved his arms, shouted and
tore across the prairie. A trim space cruiser was resting beside the
wreck of his own. Across its gleaming monaloid hull ran an inscription
in silver letters: "INTERSTELLAR COSMOGRAPHY SOCIETY."
  
 
  Two men crawled out of Jonathan's wrecked freighter, glanced in
surprise at Jonathan. A third man ran from the cruiser, a Dixon Ray
Rifle in his hand.
  
 
  "I'm Jonathan Fawkes," said the castaway as he panted up, "pilot for
Universal. I was wrecked."
  
 
  A tall elderly man held out his hand. He had a small black waxed
mustache and Van Dyke. He was smoking a venusian cigarette in a
yellow composition holder. He said, "I'm Doctor Boynton." He had a
rich cultivated voice, and a nose like a hawk. "We are members of the
Interstellar Cosmography Society. We've been commissioned to make a
cursory examination of this asteroid. You had a nasty crack up, Mr.
Fawkes. But you are in luck, sir. We were on the point of returning
when we sighted the wreck."
  
 
  "I say," said the man who had run out of the cruiser. He was a prim,
energetic young man. Jonathan noted that he carried the ray gun
gingerly, respectfully. "We're a week overdue now," he said. "If you
have any personal belongings that you'd like to take with you, you'd
best be getting them aboard."
  
