He adjusted the fall of his glittering robe before the great polished
four-dimensional reflector that formed one wall of the chamber.
  
 
 
   Kismet
   
  , Skkiru muttered to himself,
   
   and a little sleight of hand.
   
  But he didn't dare offer this conclusion aloud; the libel laws of
Snaddra were very severe. So he had to fall back on a weak, "And I
suppose it is kismet that makes us all have to go live out on the
ground during the day, like—like savages."
  
 
  "It is necessary," Bbulas replied without turning.
  
 
  "Pooh," Skkiru said. "Pooh,
   
   pooh
   
  , POOH!"
  
 
  Larhgan's dainty earflaps closed. "Skkiru! Such language!"
  
 
  "As you said," Bbulas murmured, contemptuously coiling one antenna at
Skkiru, "the lots chose well and if you touch me, Skkiru, we shall have
another drawing for beggar and you will be made a metal-worker."
  
 
  "But I can't work metal!"
  
 
  "Then that will make it much worse for you than for the other
outcasts," Bbulas said smugly, "because you will be a pariah without a
trade."
  
 
  "Speaking of pariahs, that reminds me, Skkiru, before I forget, I'd
better give you back your grimpatch—" Larhgan handed the glittering
bauble to him—"and you give me mine. Since we can't be betrothed any
longer, you might want to give yours to some nice beggar girl."
  
 
  "I don't want to give my grimpatch to some nice beggar girl!" Skkiru
yelled, twirling madly in the air.
  
 
  "As for me," she sighed, standing soulfully on her head, "I do not
think I shall ever marry. I shall make the religious life my career.
Are there going to be any saints in your mythos, Bbulas?"
  
 
  "Even if there will be," Bbulas said, "you certainly won't qualify if
you keep putting yourself into a position which not only represents a
trait wholly out of keeping with the new culture, but is most unseemly
with the high priestess's robes."
  
 
  Larhgan ignored his unfeeling observations. "I shall set myself apart
from mundane affairs," she vowed, "and I shall pretend to be happy,
even though my heart will be breaking."
  
 
  It was only at that moment that Skkiru realized just how outrageous the
whole thing really was. There must be another solution to the planet's
problem. "Listen—" he began, but just then excited noises filtered
down from overhead. It was too late.
  
 
  "Earth ship in view!" a squeaky voice called through the intercom.
"Everybody topside and don't forget your shoes."
  
 
  Except the beggar. Beggars went barefoot. Beggars suffered. Bbulas had
made him beggar purposely, and the lots were a lot of slibwash.
  
 
  "Hurry up, Skkiru."
  
