It was only two stories down the moving ramp to Lorelei Cooper's
laboratory. Peter took it in fifteen seconds, running, and stumbled to
a halt in front of the door marked "Radiation." She had set her door
mechanism to "Etaoin Shrdlu," principally because he hated double-talk.
He mouthed the syllables, had to repeat them because he put an accent
in the wrong place, and squeezed through the door as soon as it opened
far enough to admit him.
  
 
  Lorelei, beautiful in spite of dark-circled eyes and a smear of grease
on her chin, looked up from a huge ledger at the end of the room. One
blonde eyebrow arched in the quizzical expression he knew so well.
  
 
  "What makes, Peter my love?" she asked, and bent back to the ledger.
Then she did a double-take, looked at his face intently, and said,
"Darling, what's wrong?"
  
 
  He said, "Have you seen the news recently?"
  
 
  She frowned. "Why, no—Harry and I have been working for thirty-six
hours straight. Haven't seen anybody, haven't heard anything. Why?"
  
 
  "You wouldn't believe me. Where's your newsbox?"
  
 
  She came around the desk and put her hands on his shoulders. "Pete,
you know I haven't one—it bores me or upsets me, depending on whether
there's trouble or not. What—"
  
 
  "I'm sorry, I forgot," he said. "But you have a scanner?"
  
 
  "Yes, of course. But really, Pete—"
  
 
  "You'll understand in a minute. Turn it on, Lorelei."
  
 
  She gazed at him levelly for a moment, kissed him impulsively, and then
walked over to the video panel on the wall and swept a mountain of
papers away from in front of it. She turned the selector dial to "News"
and pressed the stud.
  
 
  A faint wash of color appeared on the panel, strengthened slowly, and
suddenly leapt into full brilliance.
  
 
  Lorelei caught her breath.
  
 
  It was a street scene in the Science City of Manhattan, flooded by
the warm spring sunshine. Down on the lowest level, visible past the
transport and passenger tubes, the parks and moving ways should have
been dotted with colorful, holiday crowds. The people were there,
yes but they were flowing away in a swiftly-widening circle. They
disappeared into buildings, and the ways snatched them up, and in a
heartbeat they were gone.
  
 
  There were left only two blood-red, malignant monstrosities somehow
defiling the air they floated in; and below them, a pitiful huddle of
flesh no longer recognizable as human beings. They were not dead, those
men and women, but they wanted to be. Their bodies had been impossibly
joined, fused together into a single obscene, floundering mass of
helpless protoplasm. The thin moaning that went up from them was more
horrible than any cry of agony.
  
 
  "The Invaders are here, citizens," the commentator was saying in a
strangled voice. "Stay off the streets. Hide yourselves. Stay off the
streets...." His voice droned on, but neither of them heard it.
  
