The next room we examined was obviously for recreation. Containers were
filled with dozens of strange games and books of instructions in the
form of simple drawings. The games were foreign, but designed in such a
fashion that they would be interesting to Earthmen.
  
 
  Two of the rooms were sleeping quarters. The floors were covered with a
spongy substance and the lights were dim and soothing.
  
 
  Another room contained a small bathing pool, running water,
waste-disposal units and yellow cakes of soap.
  
 
  The last room was an observatory. The ceiling and an entire wall were
transparent. Outside, the stars shone clearly for a few seconds, then
disappeared for an equal time, only to reappear in a different position.
  
 
  "Hyper-space drive," Verana whispered softly. She was fascinated by
the movement of the stars. For years, our scientists had sought a
hyperspatial drive to conquer the stars.
  
 
  We selected a comfortable chair facing the transparent wall, lit
cigarettes and waited.
  
 
  A few minutes later, Marie entered the room.
  
 
  I noticed with some surprise that her face was calm. If she was
excited, her actions didn't betray it.
  
 
  She sat next to Verana.
  
 
  "What happened?" my wife asked.
  
 
  Marie crossed her legs and began in a rambling manner as if discussing
a new recipe, "That was really a surprise, wasn't it? I was scared
silly, at first. That room was dark and I didn't know what to expect.
Something touched my head and I heard a telepathic voice—"
  
 
  "Telepathic?" Verana interrupted.
  
 
  "Yes. Well, this voice said not to worry and that it wasn't going to
hurt me. It said it only wanted to learn something about us. It was
the
   
   oddest
   
  feeling! All the time, this voice kept talking to me in
a nice way and made me feel at ease ... and at the same time, I felt
   
   something
   
  search my mind and gather information. I could actually
   
   feel
   
  it search my memories!"
  
 
  "What memories?" I inquired.
  
 
  She frowned with concentration. "Memories of high school mostly. It
seemed interested in English and history classes. And then it searched
for memories of our customs and lives in general...."
  
