Retief rose, went to the communicator, assisted Miss Meuhl aside.
  
 
  "Listen carefully, Fith," he said. "Your bluff has been called. You
don't come in and we don't come out. Your camouflage worked for nine
years, but it's all over now. I suggest you keep your heads and resist
the temptation to make matters worse than they are."
  
 
  "Miss Meuhl," Fith said, "a peace squad waits outside your consulate.
It is clear you are in the hands of a dangerous lunatic. As always, the
Groaci wish only friendship with the Terrestrials, but—"
  
 
  "Don't bother," Retief said. "You know what was in those files I looked
over this morning."
  
 
  Retief turned at a sound behind him. Miss Meuhl was at the door,
reaching for the safe-lock release....
  
 
  "Don't!" Retief jumped—too late.
  
 
  The door burst inward. A crowd of crested Groaci pressed into the room,
pushed Miss Meuhl back, aimed scatter guns at Retief. Police Chief
Shluh pushed forward.
  
 
  "Attempt no violence, Terrestrial," he said. "I cannot promise to
restrain my men."
  
 
  "You're violating Terrestrial territory, Shluh," Retief said steadily.
"I suggest you move back out the same way you came in."
  
 
  "I invited them here," Miss Meuhl spoke up. "They are here at my
express wish."
  
 
  "Are they? Are you sure you meant to go this far, Miss Meuhl? A squad
of armed Groaci in the consulate?"
  
 
  "You are the consul, Miss Yolanda Meuhl," Shluh said. "Would it not be
best if we removed this deranged person to a place of safety?"
  
 
  "You're making a serious mistake, Shluh," Retief said.
  
 
  "Yes," Miss Meuhl said. "You're quite right, Mr. Shluh. Please escort
Mr. Retief to his quarters in this building—"
  
 
  "I don't advise you to violate my diplomatic immunity, Fith," Retief
said.
  
 
  "As chief of mission," Miss Meuhl said quickly, "I hereby waive
immunity in the case of Mr. Retief."
  
 
  Shluh produced a hand recorder. "Kindly repeat your statement, Madam,
officially," he said. "I wish no question to arise later."
  
 
  "Don't be a fool, woman," Retief said. "Don't you see what you're
letting yourself in for? This would be a hell of a good time for you to
figure out whose side you're on."
  
 
  "I'm on the side of common decency!"
  
 
  "You've been taken in. These people are concealing—"
  
 
  "You think all women are fools, don't you, Mr. Retief?" She turned to
the police chief and spoke into the microphone he held up.
  
 
  "That's an illegal waiver," Retief said. "I'm consul here, whatever
rumors you've heard. This thing's coming out into the open, whatever
you do. Don't add violation of the Consulate to the list of Groacian
atrocities."
  
 
  "Take the man," Shluh said.
  
