She had finished. And now Cyril cleared his throat. "Dear friends, we
were honored by your gracious invitation to visit this fair planet, and
we are honored now by the cordial reception you have given to us."
  
 
  The crowd yoomped politely. After a slight start, Cyril went on,
apparently deciding that applause was all that had been intended.
  
 
  "We feel quite sure that we are going to derive both pleasure and
profit from our stay here, and we promise to make our intensive
analysis of your culture as painless as possible. We wish only to study
your society, not to tamper with it in any way."
  
 
 
   Ha, ha
   
  , Skkiru said to himself.
   
   Ha, ha, ha!
   
 
 
  "But why is it," Raoul whispered in Terran as he glanced around out of
the corners of his eyes, "that only the beggar wears mudshoes?"
  
 
  "Shhh," Cyril hissed back. "We'll find out later, when we've
established rapport. Don't be so impatient!"
  
 
  Bbulas gave a sickly smile. Skkiru could almost find it in his hearts
to feel sorry for the man.
  
 
  "We have prepared our best hut for you, noble sirs," Bbulas said with
great self-control, "and, by happy chance, this very evening a small
but unusually interesting ceremony will be held outside the temple. We
hope you will be able to attend. It is to be a rain dance."
  
 
  "Rain dance!" Raoul pulled his macintosh together more tightly at the
throat. "But why do you want rain? My faith, not only does it rain now,
but the planet seems to be a veritable sea of mud. Not, of course," he
added hurriedly as Cyril's reproachful eye caught his, "that it is not
attractive mud. Finest mud I have ever seen. Such texture, such color,
such aroma!"
  
 
  Cyril nodded three times and gave an appreciative sniff.
  
 
  "But," Raoul went on, "one can have too much of even such a good thing
as mud...."
  
 
  The smile did not leave Bbulas' smooth face. "Yes, of course, honorable
Terrestrials. That is why we are holding this ceremony. It is not a
dance to bring on rain. It is a dance to
   
   stop
   
  rain."
  
 
  He was pretty quick on the uptake, Skkiru had to concede. However,
that was not enough. The man had no genuine organizational ability.
In the time he'd had in which to plan and carry out a scheme for
the improvement of Snaddra, surely he could have done better than
this high-school theocracy. For one thing, he could have apportioned
the various roles so that each person would be making a definite
contribution to the society, instead of creating some positions plums,
like the priesthood, and others prunes, like the beggarship.
  
 
  What kind of life was that for an active, ambitious young man, standing
around begging? And, moreover, from whom was Skkiru going to beg?
Only the Earthmen, for the Snaddrath, no matter how much they threw
themselves into the spirit of their roles, could not be so carried
away that they would give handouts to a young man whom they had been
accustomed to see basking in the bosom of luxury.
  
