It was an hour before dawn when Retief keyed the combination to the
safe-lock and stepped into the darkened consular office. He looked
tired.
  
 
  Miss Meuhl, dozing in a chair, awoke with a start. She looked at
Retief, rose and snapped on a light, turned to stare.
  
 
  "What in the world—Where have you been? What's happened to your
clothing?"
  
 
  "I got a little dirty. Don't worry about it." Retief went to his desk,
opened a drawer and replaced the needler.
  
 
  "Where have you been?" Miss Meuhl demanded. "I stayed here—"
  
 
  "I'm glad you did," Retief said. "I hope you piled up a supply of food
and water from the dispenser, too. We'll be holed up here for a week,
at least." He jotted figures on a pad. "Warm up the official sender. I
have a long transmission for Regional Headquarters."
  
 
  "Are you going to tell me where you've been?"
  
 
  "I have a message to get off first, Miss Meuhl," Retief said sharply.
"I've been to the Foreign Ministry," he added. "I'll tell you all about
it later."
  
 
  "At this hour? There's no one there...."
  
 
  "Exactly."
  
 
  Miss Meuhl gasped. "You mean you broke in? You burgled the Foreign
Office?"
  
 
  "That's right," Retief said calmly. "Now—"
  
 
  "This is absolutely the end!" Miss Meuhl said. "Thank heaven I've
already—"
  
 
  "Get that sender going, woman!" Retief snapped. "This is important."
  
 
  "I've already done so, Mr. Retief!" Miss Meuhl said harshly. "I've been
waiting for you to come back here...." She turned to the communicator,
flipped levers. The screen snapped aglow, and a wavering long-distance
image appeared.
  
 
  "He's here now," Miss Meuhl said to the screen. She looked at Retief
triumphantly.
  
 
  "That's good," Retief said. "I don't think the Groaci can knock us off
the air, but—"
  
 
  "I have done my duty, Mr. Retief," Miss Meuhl said. "I made a full
report to Regional Headquarters last night, as soon as you left this
office. Any doubts I may have had as to the rightness of that decision
have been completely dispelled by what you've just told me."
  
 
  Retief looked at her levelly. "You've been a busy girl, Miss Meuhl. Did
you mention the six Terrestrials who were killed here?"
  
 
  "That had no bearing on the matter of your wild behavior! I must say,
in all my years in the Corps, I've never encountered a personality less
suited to diplomatic work."
  
