They walked toward the ugly red mound that jutted above the green. When
they came close enough, he saw the bodies lying there ... the remains,
actually, of what had once been bodies. He felt too sickened to go on
walking.
  
 
  "It may seem cruel now," she said, "but the Martians realized that
there is no cure for the will to conquer. There is no safety from it,
either, as the people of Earth and Venus discovered, unless it is
given an impossible obstacle to overcome. So the Martians provided the
Conquerors with a mountain. They themselves wanted to climb. They had
to."
  
 
  He was hardly listening as he walked away from Helene toward the eroded
hills. The crew members of the first four ships were skeletons tied
together with imperishably strong rope about their waists. Far beyond
them were those from
   
   Mars V
   
  , too freshly dead to have decayed
much ... Anhauser with his rope cut, a bullet in his head; Jacobs and
Marsha and the others ... Terrence much past them all. He had managed
to climb higher than anyone else and he lay with his arms stretched
out, his fingers still clutching at rock outcroppings.
  
 
  The trail they left wound over the ground, chipped in places for holds,
red elsewhere with blood from torn hands. Terrence was more than twelve
miles from the ship—horizontally.
  
 
  Bruce lifted Marsha and carried her back over the rocky dust, into the
fresh fragrance of the high grass, and across it to the shade and peace
beside the canal.
  
 
  He put her down. She looked peaceful enough, more peaceful than that
other time, years ago, when the two of them seemed to have shared so
much, when the future had not yet destroyed her. He saw the shadow of
Helene bend across Marsha's face against the background of the silently
flowing water of the cool, green canal.
  
 
  "You loved her?"
  
 
  "Once," Bruce said. "She might have been sane. They got her when she
was young. Too young to fight. But she would have, I think, if she'd
been older when they got her."
  
 
  He sat looking down at Marsha's face, and then at the water with the
leaves floating down it.
  
 
  "'... And the springs that flow on the floor of the valley will never
seem fresh or clear for thinking of the glitter of the mountain water
in the feathery green of the year....'"
  
 
  He stood up, walked back with Helene along the canal toward the calm
city. He didn't look back.
  
 
  "They've all been dead quite a while," Bruce said wonderingly. "Yet
I seemed to be hearing from Terrence until only a short time ago.
Are—are the climbers still climbing—somewhere, Helene?"
  
 
  "Who knows?" Helene answered softly. "Maybe. I doubt if even the
Martians have the answer to that."
  
 
  They entered the city.
  
 
