The land of the Fweep turned like a fat old man toasting himself in
front of an open fire, and Junior sat at the computer's keyboard
swearing in a steady monotone.
  
 
  "Junior!" said Joyce, shocked.
  
 
  Junior swung around impatiently. "Sorry, Mother, but this damned thing
won't work."
  
 
  "I'm sure that calling it names won't help, and besides, you shouldn't
expect a machine to do something that we can't do. And if it did work,
it would only say that the logical answer is the one I sug—"
  
 
  "Mother!" Junior warned. "We decided not to talk about it any more.
Four is strange enough without encouraging him to think like a martyr.
It's out of the question. If that's the only way we can leave this
planet, we'll stay here until Four has a beard as white as Grampa's!"
  
 
  "Well!" Joyce said in a stiff, offended tone and sat back in her chair.
  
 
  Grampa lowered the nippled bottle from his lips and chortled. "Junior,
I apologize for all the mean things I ever said about you. Maybe you
got the makings of a Peppergrass yet."
  
 
  Junior turned back to the keyboard and studied it, his chin in his
hand. "It's just a matter of stating the problem in terms the computer
can work on."
  
 
  "I take it all back," said Grampa. "That computer won't help you with
this problem, Junior. This ain't a long, complicated calculation; it's
a simple problem in logic. It's a pircuit problem, like the one about
the cannibals and the missionaries. We can't leave Fweepland because
Fweep won't let our polarizer work. He won't let our polarizer work
because he doesn't like gravity that's polarized in a straight line,
and he don't want Four to leave him.
  
 
  "Now Fweep ain't the brightest creature in the Universe, so he can't
understand why we're so gosh-fired eager to leave. And as long as he's
got Four, he's happy. Why should he make himself unhappy? As a favor
to Four, he'd let us leave—if we'd leave Four here with him, which we
ain't gonna do.
  
 
  "That's the problem. All we got to do is figure out the answer. No use
making a pircuit, because a puzzle circuit is just a miniature computer
with the solution built in; if you can build the pircuit, you've
already solved the problem. And if you can state the problem to Abacus,
you've already got the answer. All you want from it then is decimal
points."
  
 
  "That may be," Junior said stubbornly, "but I still want to know why
this computer won't work. It won't even do simple arithmetic! Where's
Four? He's the only one who understands this thing."
  
 
  "He's outside, playing in the meadow with Fweep," Reba said, her voice
soft. "No, here they come now."
  
