Eric caught a faint nod here, a gesture there. Kroon nodded as if
in satisfaction. He turned to the girl, "And what is your opinion,
Daughter of the City?"
  
 
  Nolette's expression held sorrow, as if she looked into the far future.
She said, "He is Eric the Bronze. I have no doubt."
  
 
  Eric asked, "And what is this Legend of Eric the Bronze? Why am I so
despised in the city?"
  
 
  Kroon answered, "According to the Ancient Legend you will destroy the
city. This, and other things."
  
 
  Eric gaped. No wonder the crowd had shown such hatred. But why were
the elders so friendly? They were obviously the governing body, and if
there was strife between them and the people it had not shown in the
respect the crowd had accorded Nolette.
  
 
  Kroon said, "I see you are puzzled. Let me tell you the story of the
City. The City is old. It dates from long ago when the canals of Mars
ran clear and green with water, and the deserts were vineyards and
gardens. The drouth came, and the changes in climate, and soon it
became plain that the people of Mars were doomed. They had ships, and
could build more, and gradually they left to colonize other planets.
Yet they could take little of their science. And fear and riots
destroyed much. Also there were those who were filled with love for
this homeland, and who thought that one day it might be habitable
again. All the skill of the ancient Martian fathers went into the
building of a giant machine, the machine that is the City, to protect a
small colony of those who were chosen to remain on Mars."
  
 
  "This whole city is a machine!" Eric asked.
  
 
  "Yes, or the product of one. The heart of it lies underneath our feet,
in caverns beneath this building. The nature of the machine is this,
that it translates thought into reality."
  
 
  Eric stared. The idea was staggering.
  
 
  "This is essentially simple, although the technology is complex. It is
necessary to have a recording device, to capture thought, a transmuting
device capable of transmuting the red dust of the desert into any
sort of material desired, and a construction device, to assemble this
material into the pattern already recorded from thought." Kroon paused.
"You still doubt, my friend. Perhaps you are thirsty after your escape.
Think strongly of a tall glass of cold water, visualize it in your
mind, the sight and the fluidity and the touch of it."
  
 
  Eric did so. Without warning a glass of water stood on the table before
him. He touched the water to his lips. It was cool and satisfying. He
drank it, convinced completely.
  
 
  Eric asked, "And I am to destroy the City?"
  
 
  "Yes. The time has come."
  
 
  "But why?" Eric demanded. For an instant he could see the twinkling
beauty as clearly as if he had stood outside the walls of this building.
  
 
  Kroon said, "There are difficulties. The machine builds according to
the mass will of the people, though it is sensitive to the individual
in areas where it does not conflict with the imagination of the mass.
We have had strangers, visitors, and even our own people, who grew
drunk with the power of the machine, who dreamed more and more lust and
greed into existence. These were banished from the city, and so strong
is the call of the city that many of them became victims of their own
evilness, and now walk mindlessly, with no thought but to seek for the
beauty they have lost here."
  
 
  Kroon sighed. "The people have lost the will to learn. Many do not even
know of the machine. Our science is almost gone, and only a few of us,
the dreamers, the elders, have kept alive the old knowledge of the
machine and its history. By the collected powers of our imagination we
build and control the outward appearance of the city.
  
 
  "We have passed this down from father to son. A part of the ancient
Legend is that the builders made provisions for the machine to be
destroyed when contact with outsiders had been made once again, so that
our people would again have to struggle forward to knowledge and power.
The instrument of destruction was to be a man termed Eric the Bronze.
It is not that you are reborn. It is just that sometime such a man
would come."
  
 
  Eric said, "I can understand the Bronze part. They had thought that a
space man might well be sun tanned. They had thought that a science to
protect against this beautiful illusion would provide a metal shield
of some sort, probably copper in nature. That such a man should come
is inevitable. But why Eric. Why the name Eric?"
  
 
  For the first time Nolette spoke. She said quietly, "The name Eric
was an honorable name of the ancient fathers. It must have been their
thought that the new beginning should wait for some of their own far
flung kind to return."
  
 
  Eric nodded. He asked, "What happens now?"
  
 
  "Nothing. Dwell here with us and you will be safe from our people. If
the prediction is not soon fulfilled and you are not the Eric of the
Legend, you may stay or go as you desire."
  
 
  "My brother, Garve. What about him?"
  
 
  "He loves the city. He will also stay, though he will be outside this
building." Kroon clasped his hands. "Nolette, will you show Eric his
quarters?"
  
