"Quite alone," the Aga said. He nodded sagely. "Yes, one need but read
the lesson of history. The Corps Diplomatique will make expostulatory
noises, but it will accept the
   
   fait accompli
   
  . You, my dear sir, are
but a very small nibble. We won't make the mistake of excessive greed.
We shall inch our way to empire—and those who stand in our way shall
be dubbed warmongers."
  
 
  "I see you're quite a student of history, Stanley," Retief said. "I
wonder if you recall the eventual fate of most of the would-be empire
nibblers of the past?"
  
 
  "Ah, but they grew incautious. They went too far, too fast."
  
 
  "The confounded impudence," Georges rasped. "Tells us to our face what
he has in mind!"
  
 
  "An ancient and honorable custom, from the time of
   
   Mein Kampf
   
  and
the
   
   Communist Manifesto
   
  through the
   
   Porcelain Wall
   
  of Leung. Such
declarations have a legendary quality. It's traditional that they're
never taken at face value."
  
 
  "But always," Retief said, "there was a critical point at which the man
on horseback could have been pulled from the saddle."
  
 
  "
   
   Could
   
  have been," the Aga Kaga chuckled. He finished the grapes and
began peeling an orange. "But they never were. Hitler could have been
stopped by the Czech Air Force in 1938; Stalin was at the mercy of the
primitive atomics of the west in 1946; Leung was grossly over-extended
at Rangoon. But the onus of that historic role could not be overcome.
It has been the fate of your spiritual forebears to carve civilization
from the wilderness and then, amid tearing of garments and the heaping
of ashes of self-accusation on your own confused heads, to withdraw,
leaving the spoils for local political opportunists and mob leaders,
clothed in the mystical virtue of native birth. Have a banana."
  
 
  "You're stretching your analogy a little too far," Retief said. "You're
banking on the inaction of the Corps. You could be wrong."
  
 
  "I shall know when to stop," the Aga Kaga said.
  
 
  "Tell me, Stanley," Retief said, rising. "Are we quite private here?"
  
 
  "Yes, perfectly so," the Aga Kaga said. "None would dare to intrude in
my council." He cocked an eyebrow at Retief. "You have a proposal to
make in confidence? But what of our dear friend Georges? One would not
like to see him disillusioned."
  
 
  "Don't worry about Georges. He's a realist, like you. He's prepared to
deal in facts. Hard facts, in this case."
  
 
  The Aga Kaga nodded thoughtfully. "What are you getting at?"
  
 
  "You're basing your plan of action on the certainty that the Corps will
sit by, wringing its hands, while you embark on a career of planetary
piracy."
  
 
  "Isn't it the custom?" the Aga Kaga smiled complacently.
  
 
  "I have news for you, Stanley. In this instance, neck-wringing seems
more in order than hand-wringing."
  
 
  The Aga Kaga frowned. "Your manner—"
  
 
  "Never mind our manners!" Georges blurted, standing. "We don't need any
lessons from goat-herding land-thieves!"
  
 
  The Aga Kaga's face darkened. "You dare to speak thus to me, pig of a
muck-grubber!"
  
