So Martin held his peace, because, on the whole, he liked things the
way they were. Ninian really was the limit, though. All the people he
knew lived in scabrous tenement apartments like his, but she seemed to
think it was disgusting.
  
 
  "So if you don't like it, clean it up," he suggested.
  
 
  She looked at him as if he were out of his mind.
  
 
  "Hire a maid, then!" he jeered.
  
 
  And darned if that dope didn't go out and get a woman to come clean up
the place! He was so embarrassed, he didn't even dare show his face in
the streets—especially with the women buttonholing him and demanding
to know what gave. They tried talking to Ninian, but she certainly knew
how to give them the cold shoulder.
  
 
  One day the truant officer came to ask why Martin hadn't been coming
to school. Very few of the neighborhood kids attended classes very
regularly, so this was just routine. But Ninian didn't know that and
she went into a real tizzy, babbling that Martin had been sick and
would make up the work. Martin nearly did get sick from laughing so
hard inside.
  
 
  But he laughed out of the other side of his mouth when she went out and
hired a private tutor for him. A tutor—in that neighborhood! Martin
had to beat up every kid on the block before he could walk a step
without hearing "Fancy Pants!" yelled after him.
  
 
  Ninian worried all the time. It wasn't that she cared what these people
thought of her, for she made no secret of regarding them as little
better than animals, but she was shy of attracting attention. There
were an awful lot of people in that neighborhood who felt exactly the
same way, only she didn't know that, either. She was really pretty
dumb, Martin thought, for all her fancy lingo.
  
 
  "It's so hard to think these things out without any prior practical
application to go by," she told him.
  
 
  He nodded, knowing what she meant was that everything was coming out
wrong. But he didn't try to help her; he just watched to see what
she'd do next. Already he had begun to assume the detached role of a
spectator.
  
 
  When it became clear that his mother was never going to show up again,
Ninian bought one of those smallish, almost identical houses that
mushroom on the fringes of a city after every war, particularly where
intensive bombing has created a number of desirable building sites.
  
 
  "This is a much better neighborhood for a boy to grow up in," she
declared. "Besides, it's easier to keep an eye on you here."
  
 
  And keep an eye on him she did—she or a rather foppish young man who
came to stay with them occasionally. Martin was told to call him Uncle
Raymond.
  
 
  From time to time, there were other visitors—Uncles Ives and
Bartholomew and Olaf, Aunts Ottillie and Grania and Lalage, and many
more—all cousins to one another, he was told, all descendants of his.
  
