With the four of them inside, it was somewhat cramped. Most of the
five hundred square feet was filled with equipment. Electrical cables
trailed loosely along the walls and were festooned from the ceiling,
radiating from the connections to the outside solar cells. The living
space was more restricted than in a submarine, with the bunks jutting
out from the walls about six feet from the floor.
  
 
  Lt. Chandler mounted one of the bunks to give them more room. "Well,"
he said wryly, "it doesn't smell as bad now."
  
 
  "Oops," said Major Winship. "Just a second. They're coming in." He
switched over to the emergency channel. It was General Finogenov.
  
 
  "Major Winship! Hello! Hello, hello, hello. You A Okay?"
  
 
  "This is Major Winship."
  
 
  "Oh! Excellent, very good. Any damage, Major?"
  
 
  "Little leak. You?"
  
 
  "Came through without damage." General Finogenov paused a moment. When
no comment was forthcoming, he continued: "Perhaps we built a bit more
strongly, Major."
  
 
  "You did this deliberately," Major Winship said testily.
  
 
  "No, no. Oh, no, no, no, no. Major Winship, please believe me. I very
much regret this. Very much so. I am very distressed. Depressed. After
repeatedly assuring you there was no danger of a quake—and then to
have something like this happen. Oh, this is very embarrassing to me.
Is there anything at all we can do?"
  
 
  "Just leave us alone, thank you," Major Winship said and cut off the
communication.
  
 
  "What'd they say?" Capt. Wilkins asked.
  
 
  "Larry, General Finogenov said he was very embarrassed by this."
  
 
  "That's nice," Lt. Chandler said.
  
 
  "I'll be damned surprised," Major Winship said, "if they got any
seismic data out of that shot.... Well, to hell with them, let's get
this leak fixed. Skip, can you get the calking compound?"
  
 
  "Larry, where's the inventory?"
  
 
  "Les has got it."
  
 
  Lt. Chandler got down from the bunk and Capt. Wilkins mounted.
  
 
  "Larry," Major Winship said, "why don't you get Earth?"
  
 
  "Okay."
  
 
  Capt. Wilkins got down from the bunk and Capt. Lawler ascended.
  
 
  "Got the inventory sheet, Les?"
  
 
  "Right here."
  
 
  Squeezed in front of the massive transmitter, Capt. Wilkins had
energized the circuits. There was a puzzled look on his face. He leaned
his helmet against the speaker and then shook his head sadly. "We can't
hear anything without any air."
  
 
  Major Winship looked at the microphone. "Well, I'll just report and—"
He started to pick up the microphone and reconsidered. "Yes," he said.
"That's right, isn't it."
  
 
  Capt. Wilkins flicked off the transmitter. "Some days you don't mine at
all," he said.
  
 
  "Les, have you found it?"
  
 
  "It's around here somewhere. Supposed to be back here."
  
 
  "Well,
   
   find
   
  it."
  
 
  Lt. Chandler began moving boxes. "I saw it—"
  
 
  "Skip, help look."
  
 
  Capt. Lawler got down from the bunk and Major Winship mounted. "We
haven't got all day."
  
 
  A few minutes later, Lt. Chandler issued the triumphant cry. "Here it
is! Dozen tubes. Squeeze tubes. It's the new stuff."
  
 
  Major Winship got down and Capt. Wilkins got up.
  
 
  "Marker showed it over here," Major Winship said, inching over to the
wall. He traced the leak with a metallic finger.
  
 
  "How does this stuff work?" Capt. Lawler asked.
  
 
  They huddled over the instruction sheet.
  
 
  "Let's see. Squeeze the tube until the diaphragm at the nozzle
ruptures. Extrude paste into seam. Allow to harden one hour before
service."
  
 
  Major Winship said dryly, "Never mind. I notice it hardens on contact
with air."
  
 
  Capt. Wilkins lay back on the bunk and stared upward. He said, "Now
that makes a weird kind of sense, doesn't it?"
  
 
  "How do they possibly think—?"
  
 
  "Gentlemen! It doesn't make any difference," Lt. Chandler said. "Some
air must already have leaked into this one. It's hard as a rock. A
gorilla couldn't extrude it."
  
 
  "How're the other ones?" asked Major Winship.
  
 
  Lt. Chandler turned and made a quick examination. "Oh, they're all
hard, too."
  
 
  "Who was supposed to check?" demanded Capt. Wilkins in exasperation.
  
 
  "The only way you can check is to extrude it," Lt. Chandler said, "and
if it does extrude, you've ruined it."
  
 
  "That's that," Major Winship said. "There's nothing for it but to yell
help."
  
 
 
  II
  
 
  Capt. Lawler and Lt. Chandler took the land car to Base Gagarin. The
Soviet base was situated some ten miles toward sunset at the bottom of
a natural fold in the surface. The route was moderately direct to the
tip of the gently rolling ridge. At that point, the best pathway angled
left and made an S-shaped descent to the basin. It was a one-way trip
of approximately thirty exhausting minutes.
  
 
  Major Winship, with his deficient reefer, remained behind. Capt.
Wilkins stayed for company.
  
 
  "I want a cigarette in the worst way," Capt. Wilkins said.
  
 
  "So do I, Larry. Shouldn't be more than a couple of hours. Unless
something else goes wrong."
  
 
  "As long as they'll loan us the calking compound," Capt. Wilkins said.
  
 
  "Yeah, yeah," Major Winship said.
  
 
  "Let's eat."
  
 
  "You got any concentrate? I'm empty."
  
 
  "I'll load you," Capt. Wilkins volunteered wearily.
  
 
  It was an awkward operation that took several minutes. Capt. Wilkins
cursed twice during the operation. "I'd hate to live in this thing for
any period."
  
 
  "I think these suits are one thing we've got over the Russians," Major
Winship said. "I don't see how they can manipulate those bulky pieces
of junk around."
  
 
  They ate.
  
 
  "Really horrible stuff."
  
 
  "Nutritious."
  
 
  After the meal, Major Winship said reflectively, "Now I'd like a cup of
hot tea. I'm cooled off."
  
 
  Capt. Wilkins raised eyebrows. "What brought this on?"
  
 
  "I was just thinking.... They really got it made, Larry. They've got
better than three thousand square feet in the main dome and better than
twelve hundred square feet in each of the two little ones. And there's
only seven of them right now. That's living."
  
 
  "They've been here six years longer, after all."
  
 
  "Finogenov had a
   
   clay
   
  samovar sent up. Lemon and nutmeg, too. Real,
by God, fresh lemons for the tea, the last time I was there. His own
office is about ten by ten. Think of that. One hundred square feet. And
a wooden desk. A
   
   wooden
   
  desk. And a chair. A wooden chair. Everything
big and heavy. Everything. Weight, hell. Fifty pounds more or less—"
  
 
  "They've got the power-plants for it."
  
 
  "Do you think he did that deliberately?" Major Winship asked. "I think
he's trying to force us off. I think he hoped for the quake. Gagarin's
built to take it, I'll say that. Looks like it, anyhow. You don't
suppose they planned this all along? Even if they didn't, they sure got
the jump on us again, didn't they? I told you what he told me?"
  
 
  "You told me," Capt. Wilkins said.
  
