II
  
 
  The stunning injustice of that accusation came close to costing Chip
Warren his life. For a split second he stood motionless in the doorway,
gaping lips forming denial. Words which were never to be uttered, for
suddenly a raw-boned miner wrenched a Moeller from its holster, leveled
and fired.
  
 
  The hot tongue of death licked hungrily at the young spaceman's cheek,
scorched air crackled in his eardrums. Now was no time to squander
in vain argument. Chip ducked, spun, and hurled himself through the
doorway. There still remained one hope. That he might catch the real
murderer, and in that way clear himself....
  
 
  But the door led to a small, deserted vestibule, and it to an alleyway
behind Xu'ul's Solarest. Viewing that maze of byways and passages, Chip
knew his hope was futile. There remained but one thing to do. Get out
of here. But quick!
  
 
  It was no hard task. The labyrinth swallowed him as it had engulfed the
scarred killer; in a few minutes even the footsteps of his pursuers
could no longer be heard. And Chip worked his cautious way back to the
spaceport, and to the bin wherein was cradled the
   
   Chickadee
   
  .
  
 
  Syd Palmer looked up in surprise as Chip let himself in the
electro-lock. The chubby engineer gasped, "Salvation, look what the cat
drug in! His high-flying Nibs! What's the matter, Chip? Night-life too
much for you?"
  
 
  "Never mind that now!" panted Chip. "Is this tin can ready to roll?
Warm the hypos. We're lifting gravs—"
  
 
  Palmer said anxiously, "Now, wait a minute! The men haven't quite
finished plating the hull, Chip!"
  
 
  "Can't help that! We've got important business. In a very few
minutes—
   
   Ahh!
   
  There he goes now!" Chip had gone to the
   
   perilens
   
  the
moment he entered the ship; now he saw in its reflector that which he
had expected. The gushing orange spume of a spaceship roaring from its
cradle. "Hurry, Syd!"
  
 
  There were a lot of things Syd Palmer wanted to ask. He wanted to know
   
   who
   
  went
   
   where
   
  ; he was bursting with curiosity about the "important
business" which had brought his pal back from town in such a rush; his
keen eye also had detected a needle-gun burn on Chip's coat-sleeve. But
he was too good a companion to waste time now on such trivia.
  
 
  "O.Q.," he snapped. "It's your pigeon!"
  
 
  And he disappeared. They heard his voice calling to the workmen, the
scuff of equipment being disengaged from the
   
   Chickadee's
   
  hull, the
thin, high whine of warming hypatomics. Salvation looked at Warren
quizzically.
  
 
  "It smells," he ventured gently, "like trouble."
  
 
  "It is trouble," Chip told him. "Plenty trouble!"
  
 
  "In that case—" said the old man mildly—"I guess I'd better get the
rotor stripped for action." He stepped to the gunnery turret, dropped
the fore-irons and stripped their weapon for action. "'Be ye men of
peace,'" he intoned, "'but gird firmly thy loins for righteous battle!'
Thus saith the Lord God which is Jehovah. Selah!"
  
 
  Then came Syd's cry from the depths of the hyporoom.
  
 
  "All set, Chip! Lift gravs!"
  
 
  Warren's finger found a stud. And with a gusty roar the
   
   Chickadee
   
  rocketed into space on a pillar of flame.
  
