Fith made a choked noise and spoke rapidly to Shluh in Groacian. Shluh
retracted his eyes, shrank down in his chair. Miss Meuhl opened her
mouth, closed it and blinked rapidly.
  
 
  "How did they die?" Retief snapped. "Did you murder them, cut their
throats, shoot them or bury them alive? What amusing end did you figure
out for them? Research, maybe? Cut them open to see what made them
yell...."
  
 
  "No!" Fith gasped. "I must correct this terrible false impression at
once."
  
 
  "False impression, hell," Retief said. "They were Terrans! A simple
narco-interrogation would get that out of any Groacian who saw the
parade."
  
 
  "Yes," Fith said weakly. "It is true, they were Terrestrials. But there
was no killing."
  
 
  "They're alive?"
  
 
  "Alas, no. They ... died."
  
 
  Miss Meuhl yelped faintly.
  
 
  "I see," Retief said. "They died."
  
 
  "We tried to keep them alive, of course. But we did not know what
foods—"
  
 
  "Didn't take the trouble to find out, either, did you?"
  
 
  "They fell ill," Fith said. "One by one...."
  
 
  "We'll deal with that question later," Retief said. "Right now, I want
more information. Where did you get them? Where did you hide the ship?
What happened to the rest of the crew? Did they 'fall ill' before the
big parade?"
  
 
  "There were no more! Absolutely, I assure you!"
  
 
  "Killed in the crash landing?"
  
 
  "No crash landing. The ship descended intact, east of the city. The ...
Terrestrials ... were unharmed. Naturally, we feared them. They were
strange to us. We had never before seen such beings."
  
 
  "Stepped off the ship with guns blazing, did they?"
  
 
  "Guns? No, no guns—"
  
 
  "They raised their hands, didn't they? Asked for help. You helped them;
helped them to death."
  
 
  "How could we know?" Fith moaned.
  
 
  "How could you know a flotilla would show up in a few months looking
for them, you mean? That was a shock, wasn't it? I'll bet you had a
brisk time of it hiding the ship, and shutting everybody up. A close
call, eh?"
  
 
  "We were afraid," Shluh said. "We are a simple people. We feared the
strange creatures from the alien craft. We did not kill them, but we
felt it was as well they ... did not survive. Then, when the warships
came, we realized our error. But we feared to speak. We purged our
guilty leaders, concealed what had happened, and ... offered our
friendship. We invited the opening of diplomatic relations. We made
a blunder, it is true, a great blunder. But we have tried to make
amends...."
  
 
  "Where is the ship?"
  
 
  "The ship?"
  
 
  "What did you do with it? It was too big to just walk off and forget.
Where is it?"
  
 
  The two Groacians exchanged looks.
  
 
  "We wish to show our contrition," Fith said. "We will show you the
ship."
  
 
  "Miss Meuhl," Retief said. "If I don't come back in a reasonable length
of time, transmit that recording to Regional Headquarters, sealed." He
stood, looked at the Groaci.
  
 
  "Let's go," he said.
  
