Tremaine left the hotel, walked two blocks west along Commerce Street
and turned in at a yellow brick building with the words ELSBY
MUNICIPAL POLICE cut in the stone lintel above the door. Inside, a
heavy man with a creased face and thick gray hair looked up from behind
an ancient Underwood. He studied Tremaine, shifted a toothpick to the
opposite corner of his mouth.
  
 
  "Don't I know you, mister?" he said. His soft voice carried a note of
authority.
  
 
  Tremaine took off his hat. "Sure you do, Jess. It's been a while,
though."
  
 
  The policeman got to his feet. "Jimmy," he said, "Jimmy Tremaine." He
came to the counter and put out his hand. "How are you, Jimmy? What
brings you back to the boondocks?"
  
 
  "Let's go somewhere and sit down, Jess."
  
 
  In a back room Tremaine said, "To everybody but you this is just a
visit to the old home town. Between us, there's more."
  
 
  Jess nodded. "I heard you were with the guv'ment."
  
 
  "It won't take long to tell; we don't know much yet." Tremaine covered
the discovery of the powerful unidentified interference on the
high-security hyperwave band, the discovery that each transmission
produced not one but a pattern of "fixes" on the point of origin. He
passed a sheet of paper across the table. It showed a set of concentric
circles, overlapped by a similar group of rings.
  
 
  "I think what we're getting is an echo effect from each of these
points of intersection. The rings themselves represent the diffraction
pattern—"
  
 
  "Hold it, Jimmy. To me it just looks like a beer ad. I'll take your
word for it."
  
 
  "The point is this, Jess: we think we've got it narrowed down to this
section. I'm not sure of a damn thing, but I think that transmitter's
near here. Now, have you got any ideas?"
  
 
  "That's a tough one, Jimmy. This is where I should come up with the
news that Old Man Whatchamacallit's got an attic full of gear he says
is a time machine. Trouble is, folks around here haven't even taken
to TV. They figure we should be content with radio, like the Lord
intended."
  
 
  "I didn't expect any easy answers, Jess. But I was hoping maybe you had
something ..."
  
 
  "Course," said Jess, "there's always Mr. Bram ..."
  
 
  "Mr. Bram," repeated Tremaine. "Is he still around? I remember him as a
hundred years old when I was kid."
  
 
  "Still just the same, Jimmy. Comes in town maybe once a week, buys his
groceries and hikes back out to his place by the river."
  
 
  "Well, what about him?"
  
 
  "Nothing. But he's the town's mystery man. You know that. A little
touched in the head."
  
 
  "There were a lot of funny stories about him, I remember," Tremaine
said. "I always liked him. One time he tried to teach me something
I've forgotten. Wanted me to come out to his place and he'd teach me.
I never did go. We kids used to play in the caves near his place, and
sometimes he gave us apples."
  
