Junior was Fred's only son. Because he was thirty-five and capable
of exercising adult judgment and because he had the youngest adult
reflexes, he sat in the pilot's chair, the control stick between his
knees, his thumb still over the Off-On button on top. "I know it,
Fred," he said, frowning. "This world fooled me. It has a diameter
less than that of Mercury and yet a gravitational pull as great as
Earth."
  
 
  Grampa started to say something, but an 8-year-old boy looked up from
the navigator's table beside the big computer and said, "Well, gosh,
Junior, that's why we picked this planet. We fed all the orbital data
into Abacus, and Abacus said that orbital perturbations indicated that
the second planet was unusually heavy for its size. Then Fred said,
'That looks like heavy metals', and you said, 'Maybe uranium—'"
  
 
  "That's enough, Four," Junior interrupted. "Never mind what I said."
  
 
  Those were the Peppergrass men, four generations of them, looking
remarkably alike, although some vital element seemed to have dwindled
until Four looked pale and thin-faced and wizened.
  
 
  "And, Four," Reba said automatically, "don't call your father 'Junior.'
It sounds disrespectful."
  
 
  Reba was Four's mother and Junior's wife. On her own, she was a
red-haired beauty with the loveliest figure this side of Antares. That
Junior had won her was, to Grampa, the most hopeful thing he had ever
noticed about the boy.
  
 
  "But everybody calls Junior 'Junior,'" Four complained. "Besides, Fred
is Junior's father and Junior calls him 'Fred.'"
  
 
  "That's different," Reba said.
  
 
  Grampa was still waving his puzzle circuit indignantly. "See!" The
pircuit was a flat box equipped with pushbuttons and thirteen slender
openings in the top. One of the openings was lighted. "That landing
made me push the wrong button and the dad-blasted thing beat me again."
  
 
  "Stop picking on Junior," Joyce said sharply. She was Junior's mother
and Fred's wife, still slim and handsome as she approached sixty, but
somehow ice water had replaced the warm blood in her veins. "I'm sure
he did the best he could."
  
 
  "Anybody talks about gravitational pull," Grampa said, snorting,
"deserves anything anybody could say about him. There's no such thing,
Junior. You ought to know by now that gravitation is the effect of the
curving of space-time around matter. Einstein proved that two hundred
years ago."
  
 
  "Go back to your games, Grampa," Fred said impatiently. "We've got work
to do."
  
