  The Beast-Jewel of Mars
  
 
  By V. E. THIESSEN
  
 
  The city was strange, fantastic, beautiful.
   
  He'd never been there before, yet already he
   
  was a fabulous legend—a dire, hateful legend.
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Planet Stories Spring 1955.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  He lay on his stomach, a lean man in faded one piece dungarees, and an
odd metallic hat, peering over the side of the canal. Behind him the
little winds sifted red dust into his collar, but he could not move; he
could only sit there with his gaze riveted on the spires and minarets
that twinkled in the distance, far down the bottom of the canal.
  
 
  One part of his mind said,
   
   This is it, this is the fabled city of
Mars. This is the beauty and the fantasy and the music of the legends,
and I must go down there.
   
  Yet somewhere deeper in his mind, deep in
the primal urges that kept him from death, the warning was taut and
urgent.
   
   Get away. They have a part of your mind now. Get away from the
city before you lose it all. Get away before your body becomes a husk,
a soulless husk to walk the low canals with sightless eyes, like those
who came before you.
   
 
 
  He strained to push back from the edge, trying to get that fantastic
beauty out of his sight. He fought the lids of his eyes, fought to
close them while he pushed himself back, but they remained open,
staring at the jeweled towers, and borne on the little winds the thin
wail of music reached him, saying,
   
   Come into the city, come down into
the fabled city
   
  .
  
 
  He slid over the edge, sliding down the sloping sides of the canal.
The rough sandstone tore at his dungarees, tore at his elbow where it
touched but he did not feel the pain. His face was turned toward the
towers, and the sound of his breathing was less than human.
  
 
  His feet caught a projecting bit of stone and were slowed for an
instant, so that he turned sideways and rolled on, down into the red
dust bottom of the canal, to lie face down in the dust, with the chin
strap of the odd metallic hat cutting cruelly into his chin.
  
 
  He lay there an instant, knowing that now he had a chance. With his
face down like this, and the dust smarting his eyes the image was gone
for an instant. He had to get away, he knew that. He had to mount the
sides of the canal and never look back.
  
 
  He told himself, "I am Eric North, from Earth, the Third Planet of Sol,
and this is not real."
  
 
  He squirmed in the dust, feeling it bite his cheeks; he squirmed until
he could get up and see nothing but the red sand stone walls of the
canal. He ran at the walls and clawed his way up like an animal in his
haste. He wouldn't look again.
  
 
  The wind freshened and the tune of the music began to talk to him. It
told of going barefoot over long streets of fur. It told of jewels, and
wine, and women as fair as springtime. These and more were in the city,
waiting for him to claim them.
  
 
  He sobbed, and clawed forward. He stopped to rest, and slowly his head
began to turn. He turned, and the spires and minarets twinkled at him,
beautiful, soothing, stopping the tears that had welled down his cheeks.
  
 
  When he reached the bottom of the canal he began to run toward the city.
  
 
  When he came to the city there was a high wall around it, and a heavy
gate carved with lotus blossoms. He beat against the gate and cried,
"Oh! Let me in. Let me in to the city!" The music was richer now, as if
it were everywhere, and the gate swung open without the faintest sound.
  
 
  A sentinel stood before the opened gate at the end of a long blue
street. He was dressed in red silk with his sleeves edged in blue
leopard skin, and he wore a belt with a jeweled short sword. He drew
the sword from its scabbard, and bowed forward until the point of the
sword touched the street of blue fur. He said, "I give you the welcome
of my sword, and the welcome of the city. Speak your name so that it
may be set in the records of the dreamers."
  
 
  The music sang, and the spires twinkled, and Eric said, "I am Eric
North!"
  
 
  The sword point jerked, and the sentinel straightened. His face was
white. He cried aloud, "It is Eric the Bronze. It is Eric of the
Legend." He whirled the sword aloft, and smashed it upon Eric's metal
hat, and the hatred was a blue flame in his eyes.
  
