I listened to the harsh, erratic sound and my voice was weak by
comparison: "Calling Lunar City."
  
 
  "Static!" Kane echoed my thoughts. His frown made deep clefts between
his eyebrows. "There's no static between inter-lunar radio!"
  
 
  Verana's voice was small and frightened. "That sounds like the static
we hear over the bigger radios when we broadcast to Earth."
  
 
  "It does," Marie agreed.
  
 
  "But we wouldn't have that kind of static over
   
   our
   
  radio, unless—"
Verana's eyes widened until the pupils were surrounded by circles of
white—"unless we were in outer space!"
  
 
  We stared at the metal door that had imprisoned us, afraid even to
speak of our fantastic suspicion.
  
 
  I deactivated my radio.
  
 
  Marie screamed as an inner door opened to disclose a long, narrow
corridor beyond.
  
 
  Simultaneous with the opening of the second door, I felt air press
against my spacesuit. Before, our suits had been puffed outward by the
pressure of air inside. Now our spacesuits were slack and dangling on
our bodies.
  
 
  We looked at each other and then at the inviting corridor beyond the
open door.
  
 
  We went single file, first Kane, then his wife Marie. Verana followed
next and I was the last.
  
 
  We walked slowly, examining the strange construction. The walls were
featureless but still seemed alien. At various places on the walls were
the outlines of doors without handles or locks.
  
 
  Kane pressed his shoulder against a door and shoved. The door was
unyielding.
  
 
  I manipulated the air-vent controls of my spacesuit, allowed a small
amount of the corridor's air into my helmet and inhaled cautiously.
It smelled all right. I waited and nothing happened. Gradually, I
increased the intake, turned off the oxygenating machines and removed
my helmet.
  
 
  "Shut off your oxy," I suggested. "We might as well breathe the air in
this place and save our supply. We may need the oxygen in our suits
later."
  
 
  They saw that I had removed my helmet and was still alive and one by
one removed their own helmets.
  
