Retief followed the signs, threaded his way through crowds, found a
covered ramp with the number 228 posted over it. A heavy-shouldered man
with a scarred jawline and small eyes was slouching there in a rumpled
gray uniform. He put out a hand as Retief started past him.
  
 
  "Lessee your boarding pass," he muttered.
  
 
  Retief pulled a paper from an inside pocket, handed it over.
  
 
  The guard blinked at it.
  
 
  "Whassat?"
  
 
  "A gram confirming my space," Retief said. "Your boy on the counter
says he's out to lunch."
  
 
  The guard crumpled the gram, dropped it on the floor and lounged back
against the handrail.
  
 
  "On your way, bub," he said.
  
 
  Retief put his suitcase carefully on the floor, took a step and drove a
right into the guard's midriff. He stepped aside as the man doubled and
went to his knees.
  
 
  "You were wide open, ugly. I couldn't resist. Tell your boss I sneaked
past while you were resting your eyes." He picked up his bag, stepped
over the man and went up the gangway into the ship.
  
 
  A cabin boy in stained whites came along the corridor.
  
 
  "Which way to cabin fifty-seven, son?" Retief asked.
  
 
  "Up there." The boy jerked his head and hurried on. Retief made his way
along the narrow hall, found signs, followed them to cabin fifty-seven.
The door was open. Inside, baggage was piled in the center of the
floor. It was expensive looking baggage.
  
 
  Retief put his bag down. He turned at a sound behind him. A tall,
florid man with an expensive coat belted over a massive paunch stood in
the open door, looking at Retief. Retief looked back. The florid man
clamped his jaws together, turned to speak over his shoulder.
  
 
  "Somebody in the cabin. Get 'em out." He rolled a cold eye at Retief as
he backed out of the room. A short, thick-necked man appeared.
  
 
  "What are you doing in Mr. Tony's room?" he barked. "Never mind! Clear
out of here, fellow! You're keeping Mr. Tony waiting."
  
 
  "Too bad," Retief said. "Finders keepers."
  
 
  "You nuts?" The thick-necked man stared at Retief. "I said it's Mr.
Tony's room."
  
 
  "I don't know Mr. Tony. He'll have to bull his way into other quarters."
  
 
  "We'll see about you, mister." The man turned and went out. Retief
sat on the bunk and lit a cigar. There was a sound of voices in
the corridor. Two burly baggage-smashers appeared, straining at an
oversized trunk. They maneuvered it through the door, lowered it,
glanced at Retief and went out. The thick-necked man returned.
  
 
  "All right, you. Out," he growled. "Or have I got to have you thrown
out?"
  
 
  Retief rose and clamped the cigar between his teeth. He gripped a
handle of the brass-bound trunk in each hand, bent his knees and heaved
the trunk up to chest level, then raised it overhead. He turned to the
door.
  
 
  "Catch," he said between clenched teeth. The trunk slammed against the
far wall of the corridor and burst.
  
 
  Retief turned to the baggage on the floor, tossed it into the hall. The
face of the thick-necked man appeared cautiously around the door jamb.
  
 
  "Mister, you must be—"
  
 
  "If you'll excuse me," Retief said, "I want to catch a nap." He flipped
the door shut, pulled off his shoes and stretched out on the bed.
  
