Shock momentarily immobilized Chip. Not so the bartender. He was, it
seemed, an ardent pacifist. With a bleat of panic fear he scampered
from his post, his metallic stilts clattering off in the distance.
Chip's accuser moved forward from the shadows; dim light illumined his
features. And—
  
 
  "
   
   Johnny!
   
  " Chip's voice lifted in a note of jubilant surprise.
"Johnny Haldane—you old scoundrel! Where in the void did
   
   you
   
  drop
from?"
  
 
  The S.S.P. man chuckled and returned Chip's greeting with a
bone-grinding handclasp.
  
 
  "I might ask the same of you, chum! Lord, it's been ages since we've
crossed 'jectory! When I saw you meandering across the Casino, you
could have knocked me down with a jetblast! What's new? Is old Syd
still with you?"
  
 
  "We're still shipmates. But he's back at the spaceport. The jerry-crew
is plating our crate with ek, and—"
  
 
  "Ek! Plating a private cruiser!" Haldane stared at him in astonishment,
then whistled. "Sweet Sacred Stars, you must be filthy with credits to
be able to coat an entire ship with ekalastron!"
  
 
  "You," boasted Chip, "ain't heard nothing yet!" And he told him how
they had discovered an entire mountain of the previous new element, No.
97 in the periodic table, on frigid Titania, satellite of far Uranus.
"It was touch-and-go for a while," he admitted, "whether we'd be the
luckiest three guys in space—or the deadest! But we passed through the
flaming caverns like old Shadrach in the Bible—remember?—and here we
are!"
  [1]
  
 
  Haldane was exuberant. "A mountain of ekalastron!" he gloated.
"That's the greatest contribution to spaceflight since Biggs'
velocity-intensifier!" It was no overstatement. "Element No. 97 was a
metal so light that a man could carry in one hand enough to coat the
entire hull of a battleship—yet so adamant that a gossamer film of
it would deflect a meteor! A metal strong enough to crush diamonds to
ash—but so resilient that, when properly treated, it would rebound
like rubber! What are you going to do with it, Chip? Put it on the
open market?"
  
 
  Warren shook his head.
  
 
  "Not exactly. We talked it over carefully—Syd and Salvation and I—and
we decided there are some space-rats to whom it shouldn't be made
available. Privateers and outlaws, you know. So we turned control of
the mines over to the Space Patrol at Uranus, and visiphoned the Earth
authorities we were bringing in one cargo—"
  
 
  "Visiphoned!" interrupted Haldane sharply. "Did you say visiphoned?"
  
 
  "Why—why, yes."
  
 
  "From where?"
  
 
  "Oh, just before we reached the Belt. We don't have a very strong
transmitter, you know. Sa-a-ay, what's all the excitement, pal? Did we
do something that was wrong?"
  
 
  Haldane frowned worriedly. "I don't know, Chip. It wasn't anything
   
   wrong
   
  , but what you did was damned dangerous. For if your message was
intercepted, you may have played into the very hands of—the Lorelei!"
  
