Barry opened his eyes. The ship was in normal deceleration and Nick
Podtiaguine was watching him from a nearby bunk.
  
 
  "I could eat a cow with the smallpox," Barry declared.
  
 
  Nick grinned. "No doubt. You slept around the clock and more. Nice job
of work out there."
  
 
  Barry unhitched his straps and sat up.
  
 
  "Say," he asked anxiously. "What's haywire with the air?"
  
 
  Nick looked startled. "Nothing. Everything checked out when I came off
watch a few minutes ago."
  
 
  Barry shrugged. "Probably just me. Guess I'll go see if I can mooch a
handout."
  
 
  He found himself a hero. The cook was ready to turn the galley inside
out while a radio engineer and an entomologist hovered near to wait on
him. But he couldn't enjoy the meal. The sensations of heat and dryness
he had noticed on awakening grew steadily worse. It became difficult to
breathe.
  
 
  He started to rise, and abruptly the room swirled and darkened around
him. Even as he sank into unconsciousness he knew the answer.
  
 
  The suit's Kendall-shield had leaked!
  
 
  Four plunged toward Venus tail first, the Hoskins jets flaring ahead.
The single doctor for the Colony had gone out in Two and the crewmen
trained in first aid could do little to relieve Barry's distress.
Fainting spells alternated with fever and delirium and an unquenchable
thirst. His breathing became increasingly difficult.
  
 
  A few thousand miles out Four picked up a microbeam. A feeling of
exultation surged through the ship as Captain Reno passed the word, for
the beam meant that some Earthmen were alive upon Venus. They were not
necessarily diving straight toward oblivion. Barry, sick as he was,
felt the thrill of the unknown world that lay ahead.
  
 
  Into a miles-thick layer of opacity Four roared, with Captain Reno
himself jockeying throttles to keep it balanced on its self-created
support of flame.
  
 
  "You're almost in," a voice chanted into his headphones through
crackling, sizzling static. "Easy toward spherical one-thirty. Hold it!
Lower. Lower. CUT YOUR POWER!"
  
 
  The heavy hull dropped sickeningly, struck with a mushy thud, settled,
steadied.
  
 
  Barry was weak, but with Nick Podtiaguine steadying him he was waiting
with the others when Captain Reno gave the last order.
  
 
  "Airlock open. Both doors."
  
 
  Venusian air poured in.
  
 
  "For this I left Panama?" one of the men yelped.
  
 
  "Enough to gag a maggot," another agreed with hand to nose.
  
 
  It was like mid-summer noon in a tropical mangrove swamp, hot and
unbearably humid and overpowering with the stench of decaying
vegetation.
  
 
  But Barry took one deep breath, then another. The stabbing needles in
his chest blunted, and the choking band around his throat loosened.
  
 
  The outer door swung wide. He blinked, and a shift in the encompassing
vapors gave him his first sight of a world bathed in subdued light.
  
 
  Four had landed in a marsh with the midships lock only a few feet above
a quagmire surface still steaming from the final rocket blast. Nearby
the identical hulls of Two and Three stood upright in the mud. The
mist shifted again and beyond the swamp he could see the low, rounded
outlines of the collapsible buildings Two and Three had carried in
their cargo pits. They were set on a rock ledge rising a few feet out
of the marsh. The Colony!
  
 
  Men were tossing sections of lattice duckboard out upon the swamp,
extending a narrow walkway toward Four's airlock, and within a few
minutes the new arrivals were scrambling down.
  
 
  Barry paid little attention to the noisy greetings and excited talk.
Impatiently he trotted toward the rock ledge, searching for one
particular figure among the men and women who waited.
  
 
  "Dorothy!" he said fervently.
  
 
  Then his arms were around her and she was responding to his kiss.
  
 
  Then unexpected pain tore at his chest. Her lovely face took on an
expression of fright even as it wavered and grew dim. The last thing he
saw was Robson Hind looming beside her.
  
 
  By the glow of an overhead tubelight he recognized the kindly, deeply
lined features of the man bending over him. Dr. Carl Jensen, specialist
in tropical diseases. He tried to sit up but the doctor laid a
restraining hand on his shoulder.
  
 
  "Water!" Barry croaked.
  
 
  The doctor held out a glass. Then his eyes widened incredulously as his
patient deliberately drew in a breath while drinking, sucking water
directly into his lungs.
  
 
  "Doctor," he asked, keeping his voice low to spare his throat. "What
are my chances? On the level."
  
 
  Dr. Jensen shook his head thoughtfully. "There's not a thing—not a
damned solitary thing—I can do. It's something new to medical science."
  
 
  Barry lay still.
  
 
  "Your body is undergoing certain radical changes," the doctor
continued, "and you know as much—more about your condition than I do.
If a normal person who took water into his lungs that way didn't die of
a coughing spasm, congestive pneumonia would get him sure. But it seems
to give you relief."
  
 
  Barry scratched his neck, where a thickened, darkening patch on each
side itched infuriatingly.
  
 
  "What are these changes?" he asked. "What's this?"
  
 
  "Those things seem to be—" the doctor began hesitantly. "Damn it, I
know it sounds crazy but they're rudimentary gills."
  
 
  Barry accepted the outrageous statement unemotionally. He was beyond
shock.
  
 
  "But there must be—"
  
 
  Pain struck again, so intense his body twisted and arched
involuntarily. Then the prick of a needle brought merciful oblivion.
  
 
 
  II
  
 
  Barry's mind was working furiously. The changes the Sigma radiations
had inflicted upon his body might reverse themselves spontaneously, Dr.
Jensen had mentioned during a second visit—but for that to happen he
must remain alive. That meant easing all possible strains.
  
 
  When the doctor came in again Barry asked him to find Nick Podtiaguine.
Within a few minutes the mechanic appeared.
  
 
  "Cheez, it's good to see you, Barry," he began.
  
 
  "Stuff it," the sick man interrupted. "I want favors. Can do?"
  
 
  Nick nodded vigorously.
  
 
  "First cut that air conditioner and get the window open."
  
 
  Nick stared as though he were demented, but obeyed, unbolting the heavy
plastic window panel and lifting it aside. He made a face at the damp,
malodorous Venusian air but to Barry it brought relief.
  
 
  It was not enough, but it indicated he was on the right track. And he
was not an engineer for nothing.
  
 
  "Got a pencil?" he asked.
  
 
  He drew only a rough sketch, for Nick was far too competent to need
detailed drawings.
  
 
  "Think you can get materials?"
  
 
  Nick glanced at the sketch. "Hell, man, for you I can get anything the
Colony has. You saved Four and everybody knows it."
  
 
  "Two days?"
  
 
  Nick looked insulted.
  
 
  He was back in eight hours, and with him came a dozen helpers. A
power line and water tube were run through the metal partition to the
corridor, connections were made, and the machine Barry had sketched was
ready.
  
 
  Nick flipped the switch. The thing whined shrilly. From a fanshaped
nozzle came innumerable droplets of water, droplets of colloidal size
that hung in the air and only slowly coalesced into larger drops that
fell toward the metal floor.
  
 
  Barry nodded, a smile beginning to spread across his drawn features.
  
 
  "Perfect. Now put the window back."
  
 
  Outside lay the unknown world of Venus, and an open, unguarded window
might invite disaster.
  
 
  A few hours later Dr. Jensen found his patient in a normal sleep. The
room was warm and the air was so filled with water-mist it was almost
liquid. Coalescing drops dripped from the walls and curving ceiling
and furniture, from the half clad body of the sleeping man, and the
scavenger pump made greedy gulping sounds as it removed excess water
from the floor.
  
 
  The doctor shook his head as he backed out, his clothes clinging wet
from the short exposure.
  
 
  It was abnormal.
  
 
  But so was Barry Barr.
  
 
  With breathing no longer a continuous agony Barry began to recover some
of his strength. But for several days much of his time was spent in
sleep and Dorothy Voorhees haunted his dreams.
  
 
  Whenever he closed his eyes he could see her as clearly as though
she were with him—her face with the exotic high cheek-bones—her
eyes a deep gray in fascinating contrast to her raven hair—lips that
seemed to promise more of giving than she had ever allowed herself to
fulfil—her incongruously pert, humorous little nose that was a legacy
from some venturesome Irishman—her slender yet firmly lithe body.
  
 
  After a few days Dr. Jensen permitted him to have visitors. They came
in a steady stream, the people from Four and men he had not seen since
Training Base days, and although none could endure his semi-liquid
atmosphere more than a few minutes at a time Barry enjoyed their visits.
  
 
  But the person for whom he waited most anxiously did not arrive. At
each knock Barry's heart would leap, and each time he settled back with
a sigh of disappointment. Days passed and still Dorothy did not come
to him. He could not go to her, and stubborn pride kept him from even
inquiring. All the while he was aware of Robson Hind's presence in the
Colony, and only weakness kept him from pacing his room like a caged
animal.
  
 
  Through his window he could see nothing but the gradual brightening
and darkening of the enveloping fog as the slow 82-hour Venusian day
progressed, but from his visitors' words he learned something of
Venusian conditions and the story of the Colony.
  
 
  Number One had bumbled in on visual, the pilot depending on the smeary
images of infra-sight goggles. An inviting grassy plain had proved to
be a layer of algae floating on quicksand. Frantically the crew had
blasted down huge balsa-like marsh trees, cutting up the trunks with
flame guns to make crude rafts. They had performed fantastic feats of
strength and endurance but managed to salvage only half their equipment
before the shining nose of One had vanished in the gurgling ooze.
  
 
  Lost in a steaming, stinking marsh teeming with alien creatures that
slithered and crawled and swam and flew, blinded by the eternal fog,
the crew had proved the rightness of their choice as pioneers. For
weeks they had floundered across the deadly terrain until at last,
beside a stagnant-looking slough that drained sluggishly into a warm,
almost tideless sea a mile away, they had discovered an outcropping of
rock. It was the only solid ground they had encountered.
  
 
  One man had died, his swamp suit pierced by a poisonous thorn, but the
others had hand-hauled the radio beacon piece by piece and set it up
in time to guide Two to a safe landing. Houses had been assembled, the
secondary power units of the spaceship put to work, and the colony had
established a tenuous foothold.
  
 
  Three had landed beside Two a few months later, bringing
reinforcements, but the day-by-day demands of the little colony's
struggle for survival had so far been too pressing to permit extended
or detailed explorations. Venus remained a planet of unsolved mysteries.
  
 
  The helicopter brought out in Three had made several flights which
by radar and sound reflection had placed vague outlines on the blank
maps. The surface appeared to be half water, with land masses mainly
jungle-covered swamp broken by a few rocky ledges, but landings away
from base had been judged too hazardous.
  
 
  Test borings from the ledge had located traces of oil and radioactive
minerals, while enough Venusian plants had proven edible to provide an
adequate though monotonous food source.
  
 
  Venus was the diametric opposite of lifeless Mars. Through the fog
gigantic insects hummed and buzzed like lost airplanes, but fortunately
they were harmless and timid.
  
 
  In the swamps wildly improbable life forms grew and reproduced and
fought and died, and many of those most harmless in appearance
possessed surprisingly venomous characteristics.
  
 
  The jungle had been flamed away in a huge circle around the colony to
minimize the chances of surprise by anything that might attack, but the
blasting was an almost continuous process. The plants of Venus grew
with a vigor approaching fury.
  
 
  Most spectacular of the Venusian creatures were the amphibious armored
monsters, saurian or semi-saurians with a slight resemblance to the
brontosauri that had once lived on Earth, massive swamp-dwellers that
used the slough beside the colony's ledge as a highway. They were
apparently vegetarians, but thorough stupidity in tremendous bulk made
them dangerous. One had damaged a building by blundering against it,
and since then the colony had remained alert, using weapons to repel
the beasts.
  
 
  The most important question—that of the presence or absence of
intelligent, civilized Venusians—remained unanswered. Some of the men
reported a disquieting feeling of being watched, particularly when near
open water, but others argued that any intelligent creatures would have
established contact.
  
