The problem of where to put the line between dream and reality began to
worry Bruce. He would wake up and listen and take down what Terrence
was saying, and then go to sleep again with increasing expectancy. His
dream took on continuity. He could return to the point where he had
left it, and it was the same—allowing even for the time difference
necessitated by his periods of sleep.
  
 
  He met people in the dreams, two girls and a man. They had names:
Pietro, Marlene, Helene.
  
 
  Helene he had seen from the beginning, but she became more real to
him all the time, until he could talk with her. After that, he could
also talk with Marlene and Pietro, and the conversations made sense.
Consistently, they made sense.
  
 
  The Martian landscape was entirely different in the dreams. Green
valleys and rivers, or actually wide canals, with odd trees trailing
their branches on the slow, peacefully gliding currents. Here and there
were pastel-colored cities and there were things drifting through them
that were alive and intelligent and soft and warm and wonderful to know.
  
 
  '
   
   ... dreams, in their vivid coloring of life, as in that fleeting,
shadowy, misty strife of semblance with reality which brings to the
delirious eye more lovely things of paradise and love—and all our
own!—than young Hope in his sunniest hour hath known....
   
  '
  
 
  So sometimes he read poetry, but even that was hardly equal to the
dreams.
  
 
  And then he would wake up and listen to Terrence's voice. He would
look out the window over the barren frigid land where there was nothing
but seams of worn land, like scabs under the brazen sky.
  
 
  "If I had a choice," he thought, "I wouldn't ever wake up at all again.
The dreams may not be more real, but they're preferable."
  
 
  Dreams were supposed to be wishful thinking, primarily, but he
couldn't live in them very long. His body would dry up and he would
die. He had to stay awake enough to put a little energy back into
himself. Of course, if he died and lost the dreams, there would be one
compensation—he would also be free of Terrence and the rest of them
who had learned that the only value in life lay in killing one's way
across the Cosmos.
  
 
  But then he had a feeling Terrence's voice wouldn't be annoying him
much more anyway. The voice was unreal, coming out of some void. He
could switch off Terrence any time now, but he was still curious.
  
 
  "Bruce—Bruce, you still there? Listen, we're up here at what we figure
to be five hundred thousand feet! It
   
   is
   
  impossible. We keep climbing
and now we look up and we can see up and up and there the mountain is
going up and up—"
  
 
  And some time later: "Bruce, Marsha's dying! We don't know what's the
matter. We can't find any reason for it. She's lying here and she keeps
laughing and calling your name. She's a woman, so that's probably it.
Women don't have real guts."
  
 
  Bruce bent toward the radio. Outside the shelter, the wind whistled
softly at the door.
  
 
  "Marsha," he said.
  
 
  "Bruce—"
  
 
  She hadn't said his name that way for a long time.
  
 
  "Marsha, remember how we used to talk about human values? I remember
how you seemed to have something maybe different from the others. I
never thought you'd really buy this will to conquer, and now it doesn't
matter...."
  
 
  He listened to her voice, first the crazy laughter, and then a whisper.
"Bruce, hello down there." Her voice was all mixed up with fear and
hysteria and mockery. "Bruce darling, are you lonely down there? I wish
I were with you, safe ... free ... warm. I love you. Do you hear that?
I really love you, after all. After all...."
  
 
 
 
  Her voice drifted away, came back to him. "We're climbing the highest
mountain. What are you doing there, relaxing where it's peaceful and
warm and sane? You always were such a calm guy. I remember now. What
are you doing—reading poetry while we climb the mountain? What was
that, Bruce—that one about the mountain you tried to quote to me last
night before you ... I can't remember it now. Darling, what...?"
  
