Herrell McCray was a navigator, which is to say, a man who has learned
to trust the evidence of mathematics and instrument readings beyond the
guesses of his "common sense." When
   
   Jodrell Bank
   
  , hurtling faster
than light in its voyage between stars, made its regular position
check, common sense was a liar. Light bore false witness. The line of
sight was trustworthy directly forward and directly after—sometimes
not even then—and it took computers, sensing their data through
instruments, to comprehend a star bearing and convert three fixes into
a position.
  
 
  If the evidence of his radio contradicted common sense, common sense
was wrong. Perhaps it was impossible to believe what the radio's
message implied; but it was not necessary to "believe," only to act.
  
 
  McCray thumbed down the transmitter button and gave a concise report
of his situation and his guesses. "I don't know how I got here. I
don't know how long I've been gone, since I was unconscious for a
time. However, if the transmission lag is a reliable indication—" he
swallowed and went on—"I'd estimate I am something more than five
hundred light-years away from you at this moment. That's all I have to
say, except for one more word: Help."
  
 
  He grinned sourly and released the button. The message was on its way,
and it would be hours before he could have a reply. Therefore he had to
consider what to do next.
  
 
  He mopped his brow. With the droning, repetitious call from the ship
finally quiet, the room was quiet again. And warm.
  
 
  Very warm, he thought tardily; and more than that. The halogen stench
was strong in his nostrils again.
  
 
  Hurriedly McCray scrambled into the suit. By the time he was sealed
down he was coughing from the bottom of his lungs, deep, tearing rasps
that pained him, uncontrollable. Chlorine or fluorine, one of them was
in the air he had been breathing. He could not guess where it had come
from; but it was ripping his lungs out.
  
 
  He flushed the interior of the suit out with a reckless disregard for
the wastage of his air reserve, holding his breath as much as he could,
daring only shallow gasps that made him retch and gag. After a long
time he could breathe, though his eyes were spilling tears.
  
 
  He could see the fumes in the room now. The heat was building up.
  
 
  Automatically—now that he had put it on and so started its
servo-circuits operating—the suit was cooling him. This was a
deep-space suit, regulation garb when going outside the pressure hull
of an FTL ship. It was good up to at least five hundred degrees in thin
air, perhaps three or four hundred in dense. In thin air or in space it
was the elastic joints and couplings that depolymerized when the heat
grew too great; in dense air, with conduction pouring energy in faster
than the cooling coils could suck it out and hurl it away, it was the
refrigerating equipment that broke down.
  
 
  McCray had no way of knowing just how hot it was going to get. Nor,
for that matter, had the suit been designed to operate in a corrosive
medium.
  
 
  All in all it was time for him to do something.
  
