Terrence said, "why did you shoot Doran?"
  
 
  "I didn't like him enough to take the nonsense he was handing me, and
when he shot the—" Bruce hesitated.
  
 
  "What? When he shot what?"
  
 
  Bruce felt an odd tingling in his stomach. The wind's voice seemed to
sharpen and rise to a kind of wail.
  
 
  "All right, I'll tell you. I was sleeping, having a dream. Doran woke
me up. Marsha was with him. I'd forgotten about that geological job we
were supposed to be working on. I've had these dreams ever since we got
here."
  
 
  "What kind of dreams?"
  
 
  Someone laughed.
  
 
  "Just fantastic stuff. Ask your Pavlovian there," Bruce said. "People
talk to me, and there are other things in the dreams. Voices and some
kind of shapes that aren't what you would call human at all."
  
 
  Someone coughed. There was obvious embarrassment in the room.
  
 
  "It's peculiar, but many faces and voices are those of crew members of
some of the ships out there, the ones that never got back to Earth."
  
 
  Terrence grinned. "Ghosts, Bruce?"
  
 
  "Maybe. This planet may not be a dead ball of clay. I've had a feeling
there's something real in the dreams, but I can't figure it out.
You're still interested?"
  
 
  Terrence nodded and glanced to either side.
  
 
  "We've seen no indication of any kind of life whatsoever," Bruce
pointed out. "Not even an insect, or any kind of plant life except some
fungi and lichen down in the crevices. That never seemed logical to me
from the start. We've covered the planet everywhere except one place—"
  
 
  "The mountain," Terrence said. "You've been afraid even to talk about
scaling it."
  
 
  "Not afraid," Bruce objected. "I don't see any need to climb it. Coming
to Mars, conquering space, isn't that enough? It happens that the crew
of the first ship here decided to climb the mountain, and that set a
precedent. Every ship that has come here has had to climb it. Why?
Because they had to accept the challenge. And what's happened to them?
Like you, they all had the necessary equipment to make a successful
climb, but no one's ever come back down. No contact with anything up
there.
  
 
  "Captain, I'm not accepting a ridiculous challenge like that. Why
should I? I didn't come here to conquer anything, even a mountain. The
challenge of coming to Mars, of going on to where ever you guys intend
going before something bigger than you are stops you—it doesn't
interest me."
  
 
  "Nothing's bigger than the destiny of Earth!" Terrence said, sitting up
straight and rigid.
  
 
  "I know," Bruce said. "Anyway, I got off the track. As I was saying,
I woke up from this dream and Marsha and Doran were there. Doran was
shaking me. But I didn't seem to have gotten entirely awake; either
that or some part of the dream was real, because I looked out the
window—something was out there, looking at me. It was late, and at
first I thought it might be a shadow. But it wasn't. It was misty,
almost translucent, but I think it was something alive. I had a feeling
it was intelligent, maybe very intelligent. I could feel something in
my mind. A kind of beauty and softness and warmth. I kept looking—"
  
 
  His throat was getting tight. He had difficulty talking. "Doran asked
me what I was looking at, and I told him. He laughed. But he looked.
Then I realized that maybe I wasn't still dreaming. Doran saw it, too,
or thought he did. He kept looking and finally he jumped and grabbed up
his rifle and ran outside. I yelled at him. I kept on yelling and ran
after him. 'It's intelligent, whatever it is!' I kept saying. 'How do
you know it means any harm?' But I heard Doran's rifle go off before I
could get to him. And whatever it was we saw, I didn't see it any more.
Neither did Doran. Maybe he killed it. I don't know. He had to kill it.
That's the way you think."
  
 
  "What? Explain that remark."
  
 
  "That's the philosophy of conquest—don't take any chances with
aliens. They might hinder our advance across the Universe. So we kill
everything. Doran acted without thinking at all. Conditioned to kill
everything that doesn't look like us. So I hit Doran and took the gun
away from him and killed him. I felt sick, crazy with rage. Maybe
that's part of it. All I know is that I thought he deserved to die and
that I had to kill him, so I did."
  
 
  "Is that all, Bruce?"
  
 
  "That's about all. Except that I'd like to kill all of you. And I would
if I had the chance."
  
 
  "That's what I figured." Terrence turned to the psychologist, a small
wiry man who sat there constantly fingering his ear. "Stromberg, what
do you think of this gobbledegook? We know he's crazy. But what hit
him? You said his record was good up until a year ago."
  
 
  Stromberg's voice was monotonous, like a voice off of a tape.
"Schizophrenia with mingled delusions of persecution. The schizophrenia
is caused by inner conflict—indecision between the older values and
our present ones which he hasn't been able to accept. A complete case
history would tell why he can't accept our present attitudes. I would
say that he has an incipient fear of personal inadequacy, which is why
he fears our desire for conquest. He's rationalized, built up a defense
which he's structured with his idealism, foundationed with Old Era
values. Retreat into the past, an escape from his own present feelings
of inadequacy. Also, he escapes into these dream fantasies."
  
 
  "Yes," Terrence said. "But how does that account for Doran's action?
Doran must have seen something—"
  
 
  "Doran's charts show high suggestibility under stress. Another weak
personality eliminated. Let's regard it that way. He
   
   imagined
   
  he saw
something." He glanced at Marsha. "Did
   
   you
   
  see anything?"
  
 
  She hesitated, avoiding Bruce's eyes. "Nothing at all. There wasn't
anything out there to see, except the dust and rocks. That's all there
is to see here. We could stay a million years and never see anything
else. A shadow maybe—"
  
 
  "All right," Terrence interrupted. "Now, Bruce, you know the law
regulating the treatment of serious psycho cases in space?"
  
 
  "Yes. Execution."
  
 
  "No facilities for handling such cases en route back to Earth."
  
 
  "I understand. No apologies necessary, Captain."
  
 
  Terrence shifted his position. "However, we've voted to grant you
a kind of leniency. In exchange for a little further service from
you, you can remain here on Mars after we leave. You'll be left
food-concentrates to last a long time."
  
 
  "What kind of service?"
  
 
  "Stay by the radio and take down what we report as we go up the
mountain."
  
 
  "Why not?" Bruce said. "You aren't certain you're coming back, then?"
  
 
  "We might not," Terrence admitted calmly. "Something's happened to the
others. We're going to find out what and we want it recorded. None of
us want to back down and stay here. You can take our reports as they
come in."
  
 
  "I'll do that," Bruce said. "It should be interesting."
  
