When it came time for the parting, it was Ninian who cried—tears at
her own inadequacy, Martin knew, not of sorrow. He was getting skillful
at understanding his descendants, far better than they at understanding
him. But then they never really tried. Ninian kissed him wetly on the
cheek and said she was sure everything would work out all right and
that she'd come see him again. She never did, though, except at the
very last.
  
 
  Raymond and Martin moved into a luxurious mansion in a remote area. The
site proved a well-chosen one; when the Second Atomic War came, half a
dozen years later, they weren't touched. Martin was never sure whether
this had been sheer luck or expert planning. Probably luck, because his
descendants were exceedingly inept planners.
  
 
  Few people in the world then could afford to live as stylishly as
Martin and his guardian. The place not only contained every possible
convenience and gadget but was crammed with bibelots and antiques,
carefully chosen by Raymond and disputed by Martin, for, to the man
from the future, all available artifacts were antiques. Otherwise,
Martin accepted his new surroundings. His sense of wonder had become
dulled by now and the pink pseudo-Spanish castle—"architecturally
dreadful, of course," Raymond had said, "but so hilariously
typical"—impressed him far less than had the suburban split-level
aquarium.
  
 
  "How about a moat?" Martin suggested when they first came. "It seems to
go with a castle."
  
 
 
 
  "Do you think a moat could stop Conrad?" Raymond asked, amused.
  
 
  "No," Martin smiled, feeling rather silly, "but it would make the place
seem safer somehow."
  
 
  The threat of Conrad was beginning to make him grow more and more
nervous. He got Raymond's permission to take two suits of armor that
stood in the front hall and present them to a local museum, because
several times he fancied he saw them move. He also became an adept with
the ray gun and changed the surrounding landscape quite a bit with it,
until Raymond warned that this might lead Conrad to them.
  
 
  During those early years, Martin's tutors were exchanged for the
higher-degreed ones that were now needful. The question inevitably
arose of what the youth's vocation in that life was going to be. At
least twenty of the cousins came back through time to hold one of
their vigorous family councils. Martin was still young enough to enjoy
such occasions, finding them vastly superior to all other forms of
entertainment.
  
