Then one of the men cried, "Fools! It is true. We must take no chance
with the whips. He would come back. But if he dies here before us now,
then we may forget the prophesy."
  
 
  The crowd murmured and a second voice cried, "Get the sword, get the
guards, and kill him at once!"
  
 
  Eric tensed to break away but now it was too late. His captors were
alert. They increased the twist on his arms until he almost screamed
with the pain.
  
 
  The crowd parted, and the guard came through, his red silk clothing
gleaming in the sun, his sword bright and deadly. He stopped before
Eric, and the sword swirled up like a saber, ready for a slashing cut
downward across Eric's neck.
  
 
  A woman's voice, soft and yet authoritative, called, "Hold!" And a
murmur of respect rippled through the crowd.
  
 
  "Nolette! The Daughter of the City comes."
  
 
  Eric turned his gaze to the side and saw the woman who had spoken. She
was mounted upon a black horse with a jeweled bridle. She was young and
her hair was long and free in the wind. She had ridden so softly across
the fur street that no one had been aware of her presence.
  
 
 
 
  She said, "Let me touch this man. Let me feel the pulse of his heart so
that I may know if he is truly the Bronze one of the Legend. Give me
your hand, stranger." She leaned down and grasped his hand. Eric shook
his arms free, and reached up and clung to the offered hand, thinking,
"If I pull her down perhaps I can use her as a shield." He tensed his
muscles and began to pull.
  
 
  She cried, "No! You fool. Come up on the horse," and pulled back with
an energy as fierce as his own. Then he had swung up on the horse, and
the animal leaped forward, its muffled gallop beating out a tattoo of
freedom.
  
 
  Eric clung tightly to the girl's waist. He could feel the young
suppleness of her body, and the fine strands of her hair kept swirling
back into his face. It had a faint perfume, a clean and heady scent
that made him more aware of the touch of her waist. He breathed deeply,
oddly happy as they rode.
  
 
  After five minutes ride they came to a building in the center of the
city. The building was cubical, severe in line and architecture, and it
contrasted oddly with the exquisite ornament of the rest of the city.
It was as if it were a monolith from another time, a stranger crouched
among enemies.
  
 
  The girl halted before the structure and said, "Dismount here, Eric."
  
 
  Eric swung down, his arms still tingling with pleasure where he had
held her. She said, "Knock three times on the door. I will see you
again inside. And thank your brother for sending me to bring you here."
  
 
  Eric knocked on the door. The door was as plain as the building, made
of a luminous plastic. It had all the beauty of the great gate door,
but a more timeless, more functional beauty.
  
 
  The door opened and an old man greeted Eric. "Come in. The Council
awaits you. Follow me, please."
  
 
  Eric followed down a hallway and into a large room. The room was
obviously designed for a conference room. A great table stood in the
room, made of the same luminous plastic as the door of the building.
Six men sat at this conference table. Eric's guide placed him in a
chair at the base of the T-shaped table.
  
 
  There was one vacant seat beside the head of the T, and as Eric
watched, the young woman who had rescued him entered and took her place
there. She smiled at Eric, and the room took on a warmth that it had
lacked with only the older men present. The man at her right, obviously
presiding here looked at Eric and spoke. "I am Kroon, the eldest of
the elders. We have brought you here to satisfy ourselves of your
identity. In view of your danger in the City you are entitled to some
sort of explanation." He glanced around the room and asked, "What is
the judgment of the elders?"
  
