The screen crackled, the ten-second transmission lag having elapsed.
"Mr. Retief," the face on the screen said, "I am Counsellor Pardy,
DSO-1, Deputy Under-secretary for the region. I have received a
report on your conduct which makes it mandatory for me to relieve you
administratively, vice Miss Yolanda Meuhl, DAO-9. Pending the findings
of a Board of Inquiry, you will—"
  
 
  Retief reached out and snapped off the communicator. The triumphant
look faded from Miss Meuhl's face.
  
 
  "Why, what is the meaning—"
  
 
  "If I'd listened any longer, I might have heard something I couldn't
ignore. I can't afford that, at this moment. Listen, Miss Meuhl,"
Retief went on earnestly, "I've found the missing cruiser."
  
 
  "You heard him relieve you!"
  
 
  "I heard him say he was
   
   going
   
  to, Miss Meuhl. But until I've heard
and acknowledged a verbal order, it has no force. If I'm wrong, he'll
get my resignation. If I'm right, that suspension would be embarrassing
all around."
  
 
  "You're defying lawful authority! I'm in charge here now." Miss Meuhl
stepped to the local communicator.
  
 
  "I'm going to report this terrible thing to the Groaci at once, and
offer my profound—"
  
 
  "Don't touch that screen," Retief said. "You go sit in that corner
where I can keep an eye on you. I'm going to make a sealed tape for
transmission to Headquarters, along with a call for an armed task
force. Then we'll settle down to wait."
  
 
  Retief ignored Miss Meuhl's fury as he spoke into the recorder.
  
 
  The local communicator chimed. Miss Meuhl jumped up, staring at it.
  
 
  "Go ahead," Retief said. "Answer it."
  
 
  A Groacian official appeared on the screen.
  
 
  "Yolanda Meuhl," he said without preamble, "for the Foreign Minister of
the Groacian Autonomy, I herewith accredit you as Terrestrial Consul
to Groac, in accordance with the advices transmitted to my government
direct from the Terrestrial Headquarters. As consul, you are requested
to make available for questioning Mr. J. Retief, former consul, in
connection with the assault on two peace keepers and illegal entry into
the offices of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs."
  
 
  "Why, why," Miss Meuhl stammered. "Yes, of course. And I do want to
express my deepest regrets—"
  
