Retief turned. A tall Groacian vibrated his mandibles in a gesture
of contempt. From his bluish throat coloration, it was apparent the
creature was drunk.
  
 
  "To choke in your upper sac," the bartender hissed, extending his eyes
toward the drunk. "To keep silent, litter-mate of drones."
  
 
  "To swallow your own poison, dispenser of vileness," the drunk
whispered. "To find a proper cage for this zoo-piece." He wavered
toward Retief. "To show this one in the streets, like all freaks."
  
 
  "Seen a lot of freaks like me, have you?" Retief asked, interestedly.
  
 
  "To speak intelligibly, malodorous outworlder," the drunk said. The
barkeep whispered something, and two customers came up to the drunk,
took his arms and helped him to the door.
  
 
  "To get a cage!" the drunk shrilled. "To keep the animals in their own
stinking place."
  
 
  "I've changed my mind," Retief said to the bartender. "To be grateful
as hell, but to have to hurry off now." He followed the drunk out the
door. The other Groaci released him, hurried back inside. Retief looked
at the weaving alien.
  
 
  "To begone, freak," the Groacian whispered.
  
 
  "To be pals," Retief said. "To be kind to dumb animals."
  
 
  "To have you hauled away to a stockyard, ill-odored foreign livestock."
  
 
  "To not be angry, fragrant native," Retief said. "To permit me to chum
with you."
  
 
  "To flee before I take a cane to you!"
  
 
  "To have a drink together—"
  
 
  "To not endure such insolence!" The Groacian advanced toward Retief.
Retief backed away.
  
 
  "To hold hands," Retief said. "To be palsy-walsy—"
  
 
  The Groacian reached for him, missed. A passer-by stepped around him,
head down, scuttled away. Retief backed into the opening to a narrow
crossway and offered further verbal familiarities to the drunken local,
who followed, furious. Retief backed, rounded a corner into a narrow
alley-like passage, deserted, silent ... except for the following
Groacian.
  
 
  Retief stepped around him, seized his collar and yanked. The Groacian
fell on his back. Retief stood over him. The downed native half-rose;
Retief put a foot against his chest and pushed.
  
 
  "To not be going anywhere for a few minutes," Retief said. "To stay
right here and have a nice long talk."
  
 
 
  II
  
 
  "There you are!" Miss Meuhl said, eyeing Retief over her lenses. "There
are two gentlemen waiting to see you. Groacian gentlemen."
  
 
  "Government men, I imagine. Word travels fast." Retief pulled off his
cape. "This saves me the trouble of paying another call at the Foreign
Ministry."
  
 
  "What have you been doing? They seem very upset, I don't mind telling
you."
  
 
  "I'm sure you don't. Come along. And bring an official recorder."
  
 
  Two Groaci wearing heavy eye-shields and elaborate crest ornaments
indicative of rank rose as Retief entered the room. Neither offered a
courteous snap of the mandibles, Retief noted. They were mad, all right.
  
 
  "I am Fith, of the Terrestrial Desk, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr.
Consul," the taller Groacian said, in lisping Terran. "May I present
Shluh, of the Internal Police?"
  
 
  "Sit down, gentlemen," Retief said. They resumed their seats. Miss
Meuhl hovered nervously, then sat on the edge of a comfortless chair.
  
 
  "Oh, it's such a pleasure—" she began.
  
 
  "Never mind that," Retief said. "These gentlemen didn't come here to
sip tea today."
  
 
  "So true," Fith said. "Frankly, I have had a most disturbing report,
Mr. Consul. I shall ask Shluh to recount it." He nodded to the police
chief.
  
 
  "One hour ago," The Groacian said, "a Groacian national was brought
to hospital suffering from serious contusions. Questioning of this
individual revealed that he had been set upon and beaten by a
foreigner. A Terrestrial, to be precise. Investigation by my department
indicates that the description of the culprit closely matches that of
the Terrestrial Consul."
  
 
  Miss Meuhl gasped audibly.
  
 
  "Have you ever heard," Retief said, looking steadily at Fith, "of a
Terrestrial cruiser, the
   
   ISV Terrific
   
  , which dropped from sight in
this sector nine years ago?"
  
 
  "Really!" Miss Meuhl exclaimed, rising. "I wash my hands—"
  
 
  "Just keep that recorder going," Retief snapped.
  
 
  "I'll not be a party—"
  
 
  "You'll do as you're told, Miss Meuhl," Retief said quietly. "I'm
telling you to make an official sealed record of this conversation."
  
 
  Miss Meuhl sat down.
  
 
  Fith puffed out his throat indignantly. "You reopen an old wound,
Mr. Consul. It reminds us of certain illegal treatment at Terrestrial
hands—"
  
 
  "Hogwash," Retief said. "That tune went over with my predecessors, but
it hits a sour note with me."
  
 
  "All our efforts," Miss Meuhl said, "to live down that terrible
episode! And you—"
  
 
  "Terrible? I understand that a Terrestrial task force stood off Groac
and sent a delegation down to ask questions. They got some funny
answers, and stayed on to dig around a little. After a week they left.
Somewhat annoying to the Groaci, maybe—at the most. If they were
innocent."
  
 
  "IF!" Miss Meuhl burst out.
  
 
  "If, indeed!" Fith said, his weak voice trembling. "I must protest
your—"
  
