The pale-featured Groacian vibrated his throat-bladder in a distressed
bleat.
  
 
  "Not to enter the Archives," he said in his faint voice. "The denial of
permission. The deep regret of the Archivist."
  
 
  "The importance of my task here," Retief said, enunciating the glottal
dialect with difficulty. "My interest in local history."
  
 
  "The impossibility of access to outworlders. To depart quietly."
  
 
  "The necessity that I enter."
  
 
  "The specific instructions of the Archivist." The Groacian's voice rose
to a whisper. "To insist no longer. To give up this idea!"
  
 
  "OK, Skinny, I know when I'm licked," Retief said in Terran. "To keep
your nose clean."
  
 
  Outside, Retief stood for a moment looking across at the deeply carved
windowless stucco facades lining the street, then started off in the
direction of the Terrestrial Consulate General. The few Groacians on
the street eyed him furtively, veered to avoid him as he passed. Flimsy
high-wheeled ground cars puffed silently along the resilient pavement.
The air was clean and cool.
  
 
  At the office, Miss Meuhl would be waiting with another list of
complaints.
  
 
  Retief studied the carving over the open doorways along the street.
An elaborate one picked out in pinkish paint seemed to indicate the
Groacian equivalent of a bar. Retief went in.
  
 
  A Groacian bartender was dispensing clay pots of alcoholic drink from
the bar-pit at the center of the room. He looked at Retief and froze in
mid-motion, a metal tube poised over a waiting pot.
  
 
  "To enjoy a cooling drink," Retief said in Groacian, squatting down at
the edge of the pit. "To sample a true Groacian beverage."
  
 
  "To not enjoy my poor offerings," the Groacian mumbled. "A pain in the
digestive sacs; to express regret."
  
 
  "To not worry," Retief said, irritated. "To pour it out and let me
decide whether I like it."
  
 
  "To be grappled in by peace-keepers for poisoning of—foreigners." The
barkeep looked around for support, found none. The Groaci customers,
eyes elsewhere, were drifting away.
  
 
  "To get the lead out," Retief said, placing a thick gold-piece in the
dish provided. "To shake a tentacle."
  
 
  "The procuring of a cage," a thin voice called from the sidelines. "The
displaying of a freak."
  
