Dan took a deep breath and tried another lever. The cage rose gently,
in eerie silence. It reached the ceiling and kept going. Dan gritted
his teeth as an eight-inch band of luminescence passed down the cage.
Then he was emerging into a spacious kitchen. A blue-haloed cook
waddled to a luminous refrigerator, caught sight of Dan rising slowly
from the floor, stumbled back, mouth open. The cage rose, penetrated a
second ceiling. Dan looked around at a carpeted hall.
  
 
  Cautiously he neutralized the control lever. The cage came to rest an
inch above the floor. As far as Dan could tell, he hadn't traveled so
much as a minute into the past or future.
  
 
  He looked over the controls. There should be one labeled "Forward"
and another labeled "Back", but all the levers were plain, unadorned
black. They looked, Dan decided, like ordinary circuit-breaker type
knife-switches. In fact, the whole apparatus had the appearance of
something thrown together hastily from common materials. Still, it
worked. So far he had only found the controls for maneuvering in the
usual three dimensions, but the time switch was bound to be here
somewhere....
  
 
  Dan looked up at a movement at the far end of the hall.
  
 
  A girl's head and shoulders appeared, coming up a spiral staircase. In
another second she would see him, and give the alarm—and Dan needed
a few moments of peace and quiet in which to figure out the controls.
He moved a lever. The cage drifted smoothly sideways, sliced through
the wall with a flurry of vivid blue light. Dan pushed the lever
back. He was in a bedroom now, a wide chamber with flouncy curtains, a
four-poster under a flowered canopy, a dressing table—
  
 
  The door opened and the girl stepped into the room. She was young. Not
over eighteen, Dan thought—as nearly as he could tell with the blue
light playing around her face. She had long hair tied with a ribbon,
and long legs, neatly curved. She wore shorts and carried a tennis
racquet in her left hand and an apple in her right. Her back to Dan and
the cage, she tossed the racquet on a table, took a bite of the apple,
and began briskly unbuttoning her shirt.
  
 
  Dan tried moving a lever. The cage edged toward the girl. Another;
he rose gently. The girl tossed the shirt onto a chair and undid the
zipper down the side of the shorts. Another lever; the cage shot toward
the outer wall as the girl reached behind her back....
  
 
  Dan blinked at the flash of blue and looked down. He was hovering
twenty feet above a clipped lawn.
  
 
  He looked at the levers. Wasn't it the first one in line that moved the
cage ahead? He tried it, shot forward ten feet. Below, a man stepped
out on the terrace, lit a cigarette, paused, started to turn his face
up—
  
 
  Dan jabbed at a lever. The cage shot back through the wall. He was in a
plain room with a depression in the floor, a wide window with a planter
filled with glowing blue plants—
  
 
  The door opened. Even blue, the girl looked graceful as a deer as she
took a last bite of the apple and stepped into the ten-foot-square
sunken tub. Dan held his breath. The girl tossed the apple core aside,
seemed to suddenly become aware of eyes on her, whirled—
  
 
  With a sudden lurch that threw Dan against the steel bars, the
cage shot through the wall into the open air and hurtled off with
an acceleration that kept him pinned, helpless. He groped for the
controls, hauled at a lever. There was no change. The cage rushed
on, rising higher. In the distance, Dan saw the skyline of a town,
approaching with frightful speed. A tall office building reared up
fifteen stories high. He was headed dead for it—
  
 
  He covered his ears, braced himself—
  
 
  With an abruptness that flung him against the opposite side of the
cage, the machine braked, shot through the wall and slammed to a stop.
Dan sank to the floor of the cage, breathing hard. There was a loud
   
   click!
   
  and the glow faded.
  
 
  With a lunge, Dan scrambled out of the cage. He stood looking around at
a simple brown-painted office, dimly lit by sunlight filtered through
elaborate venetian blinds. There were posters on the wall, a potted
plant by the door, a heap of framed paintings beside it, and at the far
side of the room a desk. And behind the desk—Something.
  
 
 
  II
  
 
  Dan gaped at a head the size of a beachball, mounted on a torso like a
hundred-gallon bag of water. Two large brown eyes blinked at him from
points eight inches apart. Immense hands with too many fingers unfolded
and reached to open a brown paper carton, dip in, then toss three
peanuts, deliberately, one by one, into a gaping mouth that opened just
above the brown eyes.
  
 
  "Who're you?" a bass voice demanded from somewhere near the floor.
  
 
  "I'm ... I'm ... Dan Slane ... your honor."
  
 
  "What happened to Manny and Fiorello?"
  
 
  "They—I—There was this cop. Kelly—"
  
 
  "Oh-oh." The brown eyes blinked deliberately. The many-fingered hands
closed the peanut carton and tucked it into a drawer.
  
 
  "Well, it was a sweet racket while it lasted," the basso voice said. "A
pity to terminate so happy an enterprise. Still...." A noise like an
amplified Bronx cheer issued from the wide mouth.
  
 
  "How ... what...?"
  
 
  "The carrier returns here automatically when the charge drops below a
critical value," the voice said. "A necessary measure to discourage
big ideas on the part of wisenheimers in my employ. May I ask how you
happen to be aboard the carrier, by the way?"
  
 
  "I just wanted—I mean, after I figured out—that is, the police ... I
went for help," Dan finished lamely.
  
 
  "Help? Out of the picture, unfortunately. One must maintain one's
anonymity, you'll appreciate. My operation here is under wraps at
present. Ah, I don't suppose you brought any paintings?"
  
 
  Dan shook his head. He was staring at the posters. His eyes,
accustoming themselves to the gloom of the office, could now make out
the vividly drawn outline of a creature resembling an alligator-headed
giraffe rearing up above scarlet foliage. The next poster showed a face
similar to the beachball behind the desk, with red circles painted
around the eyes. The next was a view of a yellow volcano spouting fire
into a black sky.
  
 
  "Too bad." The words seemed to come from under the desk. Dan squinted,
caught a glimpse of coiled purplish tentacles. He gulped and looked up
to catch a brown eye upon him. Only one. The other seemed to be busily
at work studying the ceiling.
  
 
  "I hope," the voice said, "that you ain't harboring no reactionary
racial prejudices."
  
