I finished my coffee in one gulp and went to pay the bill with her.
I asked her why she didn't claim the bag at the same time the other
people had. She said she had called her sister and the phone was busy
for a long while.
  
 
  "She was supposed to meet me, and when she wasn't here, I got worried.
She said she isn't feeling well and asked me to take a cab." She smiled
a little. It was a bright, cheery thing. I had the feeling it was all
for me. "That's where I was going when you caught up with me."
  
 
  It had become a very nice day. But the bottom dropped out of it again
when we reached the lobby.
  
 
  The two bags weren't there.
  
 
  I ran to the entrance and nearly collided with the redcap.
  
 
  "See anybody go out of here with a little red bag and an old battered
suitcase?"
  
 
  "Bag? Suitcase?" he mumbled. Then he became excited. "Why, a man just
stepped out of here—" He turned to look down the street. "That's him."
  
 
  The dumpy man I'd seen was walking off; Julia's bag in his right hand,
mine in his left. He seemed in no hurry.
  
 
  "Hey!" I shouted, starting toward him.
  
 
  The man turned, took one look at me, and started to run. He came
abreast an old gray, mud-spattered coupe, ran around, opened the door
and threw both bags into the rear seat as he got in.
  
 
  The car was a hundred feet away and gathering speed by the time I
reached where it had been parked. I watched it for a moment, then
walked back to the entranceway where Julia was standing with the
redcap, who said, "That man steal them suitcases?"
  
 
  "That he did," I said.
  
 
  Just then the airport policeman started across the street from the
parking lot. Redcap said, "Better tell him about it."
  
 
  The policeman was sympathetic and concerned. He said, "We'd better get
over to the office."
  
 
  But we never left the spot because an explosion some blocks distant
shattered the air. Julia's hand grasped my arm. Hard.
  
 
  "Jets," the redcap said, eying the sky.
  
 
  "I don't know," the policeman said. "Didn't sound much like a jet to
me."
  
 
  We stood there. I could visualize the wreckage of an old gray coupe
in the middle of a street, but I couldn't visualize the driver. That
was all right. I didn't want to see him. I didn't know what Julia was
thinking.
  
 
  She said, "About those bags," and looked at me.
  
 
  The officer said, "Yes, miss?"
  
 
  "I—I don't care about mine. I didn't have much of anything in it."
  
 
  "I feel the same way," I said. "Would it be all right if we didn't
bother to report it?"
  
 
  "Well," the policeman said, "I can't
   
   make
   
  you report it."
  
 
  "I'd rather not then," Julia said. She turned to me. "I'd like some
air. Can't we walk a little?"
  
 
  "Sure," I said.
  
 
  We started down the street, her arm in mine, as the air began to fill
with the distant sounds of sirens.
  
