The alien clicked both pincers with a sharp report, and in the same
instant Retief half-turned to the left, leaned away from the alien
and drove his right foot against the slender leg above the bulbous
knee-joint. Skaw screeched and floundered, greenish fluid spattering
from the burst joint.
  
 
  "I told you he was brittle," Retief said. "Next time you invite pirates
aboard, don't bother to call."
  
 
  "Jesus, what did you do! They'll kill us!" the captain gasped, staring
at the figure flopping on the floor.
  
 
  "Cart poor old Skaw back to his boat," Retief said. "Tell him to pass
the word. No more illegal entry and search of Terrestrial vessels in
Terrestrial space."
  
 
  "Hey," Chip said. "He's quit kicking."
  
 
  The captain bent over Skaw, gingerly rolled him over. He leaned close
and sniffed.
  
 
  "He's dead." The captain stared at Retief. "We're all dead men," he
said. "These Soetti got no mercy."
  
 
  "They won't need it. Tell 'em to sheer off; their fun is over."
  
 
  "They got no more emotions than a blue crab—"
  
 
  "You bluff easily, Captain. Show a few guns as you hand the body back.
We know their secret now."
  
 
  "What secret? I—"
  
 
  "Don't be no dumber than you got to, Cap'n," Chip said. "Sweaties die
easy; that's the secret."
  
 
  "Maybe you got a point," the captain said, looking at Retief. "All they
got's a three-man scout. It could work."
  
 
  He went out, came back with two crewmen. They hauled the dead alien
gingerly into the hall.
  
 
  "Maybe I can run a bluff on the Soetti," the captain said, looking back
from the door. "But I'll be back to see you later."
  
 
  "You don't scare us, Cap'n," Chip said. "Him and Mr. Tony and all his
goons. You hit 'em where they live, that time. They're pals o' these
Sweaties. Runnin' some kind o' crooked racket."
  
 
  "You'd better take the captain's advice, Chip. There's no point in your
getting involved in my problems."
  
 
  "They'd of killed you before now, Mister, if they had any guts. That's
where we got it over these monkeys. They got no guts."
  
 
  "They act scared, Chip. Scared men are killers."
  
 
  "They don't scare me none." Chip picked up the tray. "I'll scout around
a little and see what's goin' on. If the Sweaties figure to do anything
about that Skaw feller they'll have to move fast; they won't try
nothin' close to port."
  
 
  "Don't worry, Chip. I have reason to be pretty sure they won't do
anything to attract a lot of attention in this sector just now."
  
 
  Chip looked at Retief. "You ain't no tourist, Mister. I know that much.
You didn't come out here for fun, did you?"
  
 
  "That," Retief said, "would be a hard one to answer."
  
 
 
  IV
  
 
  Retief awoke at a tap on his door.
  
 
  "It's me, Mister. Chip."
  
 
  "Come on in."
  
 
  The chef entered the room, locking the door.
  
 
  "You shoulda had that door locked." He stood by the door, listening,
then turned to Retief.
  
 
  "You want to get to Jorgensen's perty bad, don't you, Mister?"
  
 
  "That's right, Chip."
  
 
  "Mr. Tony give the captain a real hard time about old Skaw. The
Sweaties didn't say nothin'. Didn't even act surprised, just took the
remains and pushed off. But Mr. Tony and that other crook they call
Marbles, they was fit to be tied. Took the cap'n in his cabin and
talked loud at him fer half a hour. Then the cap'n come out and give
some orders to the Mate."
  
 
  Retief sat up and reached for a cigar.
  
 
  "Mr. Tony and Skaw were pals, eh?"
  
 
  "He hated Skaw's guts. But with him it was business. Mister, you got a
gun?"
  
 
  "A 2mm needler. Why?"
  
 
  "The orders cap'n give was to change course fer Alabaster. We're
by-passin' Jorgensen's Worlds. We'll feel the course change any minute."
  
 
  Retief lit the cigar, reached under the mattress and took out a
short-barreled pistol. He dropped it in his pocket, looked at Chip.
  
 
  "Maybe it was a good thought, at that. Which way to the Captain's
cabin?"
  
