Martin had, of course, no illusions on that score; he had learned long
ago that nobody did anything for nothing. But saying so was unwise.
  
 
  "We bribed another set of plans out of another of the professor's
assistants," Raymond continued, as if Martin had answered,
"and—ah—induced a handicraft enthusiast to build the gadget for us."
  
 
 
   Induced
   
  , Martin knew, could have meant anything from blackmail to the
use of the iron maiden.
  
 
  "Then we were all ready to forestall Conrad. If one of us guarded you
night and day, he would never be able to carry out his plot. So we made
our counter-plan, set the machine as far back as it would go—and here
we are!"
  
 
  "I see," Martin said.
  
 
  Raymond didn't seem to think he really did. "After all," he pointed
out defensively, "whatever our motives, it has turned into a good
thing for you. Nice home, cultured companions, all the contemporary
conveniences, plus some handy anachronisms—I don't see what more you
could ask for. You're getting the best of all possible worlds. Of
course Ninian
   
   was
   
  a ninny to locate in a mercantile suburb where any
little thing out of the way will cause talk. How thankful I am that our
era has completely disposed of the mercantiles—"
  
 
  "What did you do with them?" Martin asked.
  
 
  But Raymond rushed on: "Soon as Ninian goes and I'm in full charge,
we'll get a more isolated place and run it on a far grander scale.
Ostentation—that's the way to live here and now; the richer you are,
the more eccentricity you can get away with. And," he added, "I might
as well be as comfortable as possible while I suffer through this
wretched historical stint."
  
 
  "So Ninian's going," said Martin, wondering why the news made him feel
curiously desolate. Because, although he supposed he liked her in a
remote kind of way, he had no fondness for her—or she, he knew, for
him.
  
 
  "Well, five years is rather a long stretch for any girl to spend in
exile," Raymond explained, "even though our life spans are a bit longer
than yours. Besides, you're getting too old now to be under petticoat
government." He looked inquisitively at Martin. "You're not going to
go all weepy and make a scene when she leaves, are you?"
  
 
  "No...." Martin said hesitantly. "Oh, I suppose I will miss her. But we
aren't very close, so it won't make a real difference." That was the
sad part: he already knew it wouldn't make a difference.
  
 
  Raymond clapped him on the shoulder. "I knew you weren't a sloppy
sentimentalist like Conrad. Though you do have rather a look of him,
you know."
  
 
  Suddenly that seemed to make Conrad real. Martin felt a vague stirring
of alarm. He kept his voice composed, however. "How do you plan to
protect me when he comes?"
  
 
  "Well, each one of us is armed to the teeth, of course," Raymond said
with modest pride, displaying something that looked like a child's
combination spaceman's gun and death ray, but which, Martin had no
doubt, was a perfectly genuine—and lethal—weapon. "And we've got a
rather elaborate burglar alarm system."
  
 
  Martin inspected the system and made one or two changes in the wiring
which, he felt, would increase its efficiency. But still he was
dubious. "Maybe it'll work on someone coming from outside this
   
   house
   
  ,
but do you think it will work on someone coming from outside this
   
   time
   
  ?"
  
 
  "Never fear—it has a temporal radius," Raymond replied. "Factory
guarantee and all that."
  
 
  "Just to be on the safe side," Martin said, "I think I'd better have
one of those guns, too."
  
 
  "A splendid idea!" enthused Raymond. "I was just about to think of that
myself!"
  
