III
  
 
  From a billion miles away, from a bourne unguessable thousands of
light-years distant, came the faint, far whisper of a voice. Nearer and
nearer it came, and ever faster, till it throbbed upon Chip's eardrums
with booming savagery.
  
 
  "—coming to, now. Good! We'll soon find out—"
  
 
  Chip opened his eyes, too dazed, at first, to understand the situation
in which he found himself. Gone was the familiar control-turret of the
   
   Chickadee
   
  , gone the bulger into which he had so hastily clambered. He
lay on the parched, rocky soil of a—a something. A planetoid, perhaps.
And he was surrounded by a motley crew of strangers: scum of all the
planets that circle the Sun....
  
 
  Then recollection flooded back upon him, sudden and complete. The
chase ... the call of the fateful Lorelei ... the crash! New strength,
born of anger, surged through him. He lifted his head.
  
 
  "My—my companions?" he demanded weakly.
  
 
  The leader of those who encircled him, a mighty hulk of a man, massive
of shoulder and thigh, black-haired, with an unshaven blue jaw,
raven-bright eyes and a jutting, aquiline nose like the beak of a hawk,
loosed a satisfied grunt.
  
 
  "Ah! Back to normal, eh, sailor? Damn near time!"
  
 
  Climbing to his feet sent a swift wave of giddiness through Chip—but
he managed it. He fought down the vertigo which threatened to overwhelm
him, and confronted the big man boldly.
  
 
  "What," he stormed, "is the meaning of this?"
  
 
  The giant stared at him for a moment, his jaw slack. Then his
raven-bright eyes glittered; he slapped a trunklike thigh and guffawed
in boisterous mirth.
  
 
  "Hear that?" he roared to his companions. "Quite a guy, ain't he?
'What's the meanin' o' this?' he asks! Game little fightin' cock, hey?"
Then he sobered abruptly, and a grim light replaced the amusement in
his eyes. Here was not a man to be trifled with, Chip realized. His
tone assumed a biting edge. "The meanin' is, my bucko," he answered
mirthlessly, "that you've run afoul o' your last reef. Unless you have
a sane head on your shoulders, and you're willing to talk fast and
straight!"
  
 
  "Talk?"
  
 
  "Don't stall. We've already unloaded your bins. We found it. And a nice
haul, too. Thanks for lettin' us know it was on the way." The burly one
chuckled coarsely. "We'd have took it, anyway, but you helped matters
out by comin' to us."
  
 
  Johnny Haldane had been right, then. Chip remembered his friend's
ominous warning. "—if your message was intercepted, you may have
played into the hands of—" He said slowly, "Then you
   
   are
   
  the
Lorelei's men?"
  
 
  "The who? Never mind that, bucko, just talk. That ekalastron—where did
it come from?"
  
 
  And it occurred to Warren suddenly that although the big man
   
   did
   
  hold
the whip hand, he was still not in possession of the most important
secret of all! While the location of the ekalastron mine remained a
secret, a deadlock existed.
  
 
  "And if I won't tell—?" he countered shrewdly.
  
 
  "Why, then, sailor—" The pirate leader's hamlike fists tightened, and
a cold light glinted in his eyes—"why, then I guess maybe I'll have to
beat it out o' you!"
  
