Grampa turned red and looked quickly toward Four. The boy was staring
intently at Fweep. "What you doing, Four?"
  
 
  "Trying to figure out what Fweep does with the sweepings," Four said
absently. "The outer inch or two of his body gets cloudy and then
slowly clears. I think I'll try him with a bigger particle."
  
 
  "That's the idea, Four. You'll be a Peppergrass yet. How about building
me a pircuit?"
  
 
  "You get the other one figured out?"
  
 
  "It was easy," Grampa said breezily, "once you understood the
principle. The player who moved second could always win if he used the
right strategy. Dividing the thirteen lights into three sections of
four each—"
  
 
  "That's right," Four agreed. "I can make you a new one by cannibalizing
the other pircuit, but I'll need a few extra parts."
  
 
  Grampa pushed the wall beside his chair and a drawer slid out of it.
  
 
  Inside were row after row of nipple-topped, flat-sided, flexible
free-fall bottles and a battered cigar box. "Thought you'd say that,"
he said, picking out the box. "Help yourself." With the other hand, he
lifted out one of the bottles and took a long drag on it. "Ahhh!" he
sighed, wiped his mouth with the back of his hand, and carefully put
the bottle away.
  
 
  "What is that stuff you drink, Grampa?" Four asked.
  
 
  "Tonic, boy. Keeps me young and frisky. Now about that pircuit—"
  
 
  "Did you ever work on Niccolò Tartaglia's puzzle about the three lovely
brides, the three jealous husbands, the river and the two-passenger
rowboat?"
  
 
  "Yep," Grampa said. "Too easy."
  
 
  Four thought a moment. "There's a modern variation with three
missionaries and three cannibals. Same river, same rowboat and only one
of the cannibals can row. If the cannibals outnumber the missionaries—"
  
 
  "Sounds good, boy," Grampa said eagerly. "Whip it up for me."
  
 
  "Okay, Grampa." Four looked at Fweep again. The translucent sphere had
paused at Grampa's feet.
  
 
  Grampa reached down to pat it. For an instant, his hand disappeared
into Fweep, and then the alien creature rolled away. This time its path
seemed crooked.
  
 
  Its gelatinous form jiggled. "Hic!" it said.
  
