 
  THE MAN OUTSIDE
  
 
  By EVELYN E. SMITH
  
 
  Illustrated by DILLON
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Galaxy Science Fiction August 1957.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
 
   No one, least of all Martin, could dispute
    
   that a man's life should be guarded by his
    
   kin—but by those who hadn't been born yet?
   
 
 
 
  Nobody in the neighborhood was surprised when Martin's mother
disappeared and Ninian came to take care of him. Mothers had a way
of disappearing around those parts and the kids were often better
off without them. Martin was no exception. He'd never had it this
good while he was living with his old lady. As for his father, Martin
had never had one. He'd been a war baby, born of one of the tides of
soldiers—enemies and allies, both—that had engulfed the country in
successive waves and bought or taken the women. So there was no trouble
that way.
  
 
  Sometimes he wondered who Ninian really was. Obviously that story
about her coming from the future was just a gag. Besides, if she really
was his great-great-grand-daughter, as she said, why would she tell
him to call her "
   
   Aunt Ninian
   
  "? Maybe he was only eleven, but he'd
been around and he knew just what the score was. At first he'd thought
maybe she was some new kind of social worker, but she acted a little
too crazy for that.
  
 
  He loved to bait her, as he had loved to bait his mother. It was safer
with Ninian, though, because when he pushed her too far, she would cry
instead of mopping up the floor with him.
  
 
  "But I can't understand," he would say, keeping his face straight. "Why
do you have to come from the future to protect me against your cousin
Conrad?"
  
 
  "Because he's coming to kill you."
  
 
  "Why should he kill me? I ain't done him nothing."
  
 
  Ninian sighed. "He's dissatisfied with the current social order and
killing you is part of an elaborate plan he's formulated to change it.
You wouldn't understand."
  
 
  "You're damn right. I
   
   don't
   
  understand. What's it all about in
straight gas?"
  
 
  "Oh, just don't ask any questions," Ninian said petulantly. "When you
get older, someone will explain the whole thing to you."
  
