For one shivery moment he knew fear. And then the fear went away, and
he was ashamed of what he had felt. What he had feared was gone now,
and he knew it was gone for good and he would never have to fear it
again.
  
 
  "Look here, Bruce. I wondered how long it would take to get it through
that thick poetic head of yours!"
  
 
  "Get what?" He began to suspect what it was all about now, but he
wasn't quite sure yet.
  
 
  "Smoke?" she said.
  
 
  He took one of the cigarettes and she lighted it for him and put the
lighter back into her pocket.
  
 
  "It's real nice here," she said. "Isn't it?"
  
 
  "I guess it's about perfect."
  
 
  "It'll be easy. Staying here, I mean. We won't be going to Earth ever
again, you know."
  
 
  "I didn't
   
   know
   
  that, but I didn't
   
   think
   
  we ever would again."
  
 
  "We wouldn't want to anyway, would we, Bruce?"
  
 
  "No."
  
 
  He kept on looking at the place where the mountain had been. Or maybe
it still was; he couldn't make up his mind yet. Which was and which was
not? That barren icy world without life, or this?
  
 
  "'
   
   Is all that we see or seem
   
  ,'" he whispered, half to himself, "'
   
   but
a dream within a dream?
   
  '"
  
 
  She laughed softly. "Poe was ahead of his time," she said. "You still
don't get it, do you? You don't know what's been happening?"
  
 
  "Maybe I don't."
  
 
  She shrugged, and looked in the direction of the ships. "Poor guys. I
can't feel much hatred toward them now. The Martians give you a lot of
understanding of the human mind—after they've accepted you, and after
you've lived with them awhile. But the mountain climbers—we can see
now—it's just luck, chance, we weren't like them. A deviant is a child
of chance."
  
 
  "Yes," Bruce said. "There's a lot of people like us on Earth, but
they'll never get the chance—the chance we seem to have here, to live
decently...."
  
 
  "You're beginning to see now which was the dream," she said and
smiled. "But don't be pessimistic. Those people on Earth will get their
chance, too, one of these fine days. The Conquerors aren't getting far.
Venus, and then Mars, and Mars is where they stop. They'll keep coming
here and climbing the mountain and finally there won't be any more. It
won't take so long."
  
 
  She rose to her toes and waved and yelled. Bruce saw Pietro and Marlene
walking hand in hand up the other side of the canal. They waved back
and called and then pushed off into the water in a small boat, and
drifted away and out of sight around a gentle turn.
  
 
  She took his arm and they walked along the canal toward where the
mountain had been, or still was—he didn't know.
  
 
  A quarter of a mile beyond the canal, he saw the high mound of red,
naked hill, corroded and ugly, rising up like a scar of the surrounding
green.
  
 
  She wasn't smiling now. There were shadows on her face as the pressure
on his arm stopped him.
  
 
  "I was on the first ship and Marlene on the second. None like us on the
third, and on the fourth ship was Pietro. All the others had to climb
the mountain—" She stopped talking for a moment, and then he felt the
pressure of her fingers on his arm. "I'm very glad you came on the
fifth," she whispered. "Are you glad now?"
  
 
  "I'm very glad," he said.
  
 
  "The Martians tested us," she explained. "They're masters of the mind.
I guess they've been grinding along through the evolutionary mill
a darn long time, longer than we could estimate now. They learned
the horror we're capable of from the first ship—the Conquerors,
the climbers. The Martians knew more like them would come and go on
into space, killing, destroying for no other reason than their own
sickness. Being masters of the mind, the Martians are also capable
of hypnosis—no, that's not really the word, only the closest our
language comes to naming it. Suggestion so deep and strong that it
seems real to one human or a million or a billion; there's no limit to
the number that can be influenced. What the people who came off those
ships saw wasn't real. It was partly what the Martians wanted them to
see and feel—but most of it, like the desire to climb the mountain,
was as much a part of the Conquerors' own psychic drive as it was the
suggestion of the Martians."
  
 
  She waved her arm slowly to describe a peak. "The Martians made the
mountain real. So real that it could be seen from space, measured by
instruments ... even photographed and chipped for rock samples. But
you'll see how that was done, Bruce, and realize that this and not the
mountain of the Conquerors is the reality of Mars. This is the Mars no
Conqueror will ever see."
  
