It was, he saw in a moment, not armor but a spacesuit. But what was the
light? And what were these other things in the room?
  
 
  Wherever he looked, the light danced along with his eyes. It was like
having tunnel vision or wearing blinders. He could see what he was
looking at, but he could see nothing else. And the things he could
see made no sense. A spacesuit, yes; he knew that he could construct
a logical explanation for that with no trouble—maybe a subspace
meteorite striking the
   
   Jodrell Bank
   
  , an explosion, himself knocked
out, brought here in a suit ... well, it was an explanation with more
holes than fabric, like a fisherman's net, but at least it was rational.
  
 
  How to explain a set of Gibbon's
   
   Decline and Fall of the Roman
Empire?
   
  A space-ax? Or the old-fashioned child's rocking-chair, the
chemistry set—or, most of all, the scrap of gaily printed fabric
that, when he picked it up, turned out to be a girl's scanty bathing
suit? It was slightly reassuring, McCray thought, to find that most of
the objects were more or less familiar. Even the child's chair—why,
he'd had one more or less like that himself, long before he was old
enough to go to school. But what were they doing here?
  
 
  Not everything he saw was familiar. The walls of the room itself were
strange. They were not metal or plaster or knotty pine; they were
not papered, painted or overlaid with stucco. They seemed to be made
of some sort of hard organic compound, perhaps a sort of plastic or
processed cellulose. It was hard to tell colors in the pinkish light.
But they seemed to have none. They were "neutral"—the color of aged
driftwood or unbleached cloth.
  
 
  Three of the walls were that way, and the floor and ceiling. The fourth
wall was something else. Areas in it had the appearance of gratings;
from them issued the pungent, distasteful halogen odor. They might be
ventilators, he thought; but if so the air they brought in was worse
than what he already had.
  
 
  McCray was beginning to feel more confident. It was astonishing how a
little light made an impossible situation bearable, how quickly his
courage flowed back when he could see again.
  
 
  He stood still, thinking. Item, a short time ago—subjectively it
seemed to be minutes—he had been aboard the
   
   Jodrell Bank
   
  with
nothing more on his mind than completing his check-sighting and meeting
one of the female passengers for coffee. Item, apart from being
shaken up and—he admitted it—scared damn near witless, he did not
seem to be hurt. Item, wherever he was now, it became, not so much what
had happened to him, but what had happened to the ship?
  
 
  He allowed that thought to seep into his mind. Suppose there had been
an accident to the
   
   Jodrell Bank
   
  .
  
 
  He could, of course, be dead. All this could be the fantasies of a
cooling brain.
  
 
  McCray grinned into the pink-lit darkness. The thought had somehow
refreshed him, like icewater between rounds, and with a clearing head
he remembered what a spacesuit was good for.
  
 
  It held a radio.
  
 
  He pressed the unsealing tabs, slipped his hand into the vacant chest
of the suit and pulled out the hand mike. "This is Herrell McCray," he
said, "calling the
   
   Jodrell Bank
   
  ."
  
 
  No response. He frowned. "This is Herrell McCray, calling
   
   Jodrell
Bank
   
  .
  
 
  "Herrell McCray, calling anybody, come in, please."
  
 
  But there was no answer.
  
 
  Thoughtfully he replaced the microphone. This was ultrawave radio,
something more than a million times faster than light, with a range
measured, at least, in hundreds of light-years. If there was no answer,
he was a good long way from anywhere.
  
 
  Of course, the thing might not be operating.
  
 
  He reached for the microphone again—
  
 
  He cried aloud.
  
 
  The pinkish lights went out. He was in the dark again, worse dark than
before.
  
 
  For before the light had gone, McCray had seen what had escaped
his eyes before. The suit and the microphone were clear enough in
the pinkish glimmer; but the hand—his own hand, cupped to hold the
microphone—he had not seen at all. Nor his arm. Nor, in one fleeting
moment of study, his chest.
  
 
  McCray could not see any part of his own body at all.
  
 
 
  II
  
 
  Someone else could.
  
 
  Someone was watching Herrell McCray, with the clinical fascination
of a biochemist observing the wigglings of paramecia in a new
antibiotic—and with the prayerful emotions of a starving, shipwrecked,
sailor, watching the inward bobbing drift of a wave-born cask that
   
   may
   
  contain food.
  
 
  Suppose you call him "Hatcher" (and suppose you call it a "him.")
Hatcher was not exactly male, because his race had no true males; but
it did have females and he was certainly not that. Hatcher did not in
any way look like a human being, but they had features in common.
  
 
  If Hatcher and McCray had somehow managed to strike up an acquaintance,
they might have got along very well. Hatcher, like McCray, was an
adventurous soul, young, able, well-learned in the technical sciences
of his culture. Both enjoyed games—McCray baseball, poker and
three-dimensional chess; Hatcher a number of sports which defy human
description. Both held positions of some importance—considering their
ages—in the affairs of their respective worlds.
  
 
  Physically they were nothing alike. Hatcher was a three-foot,
hard-shelled sphere of jelly. He had "arms" and "legs," but they were
not organically attached to "himself." They were snakelike things which
obeyed the orders of his brain as well as your mind can make your toes
curl; but they did not touch him directly. Indeed, they worked as well
a yard or a quarter-mile away as they did when, rarely, they rested
in the crevices they had been formed from in his "skin." At greater
distances they worked less well, for reasons irrelevant to the Law of
Inverse Squares.
  
 
  Hatcher's principal task at this moment was to run the "probe team"
which had McCray under observation, and he was more than a little
excited. His members, disposed about the room where he had sent them on
various errands, quivered and shook a little; yet they were the calmest
limbs in the room; the members of the other team workers were in a
state of violent commotion.
  
 
  The probe team had had a shock.
  
 
  "Paranormal powers," muttered Hatcher's second in command, and the
others mumbled agreement. Hatcher ordered silence, studying the
specimen from Earth.
  
 
  After a long moment he turned his senses from the Earthman.
"Incredible—but it's true enough," he said. "I'd better report. Watch
him," he added, but that was surely unnecessary. Their job was to
watch McCray, and they would do their job; and even more, not one of
them could have looked away to save his life from the spectacle of
a creature as odd and, from their point of view, hideously alien as
Herrell McCray.
  
