Bbulas slid the ornate headdress over his antennae, which, already
gilded and jeweled, at once seemed to become a part of it. He looked
pretty damn silly, Skkiru thought, at the same time conscious of his
own appearance—which was, although picturesque enough to delight
romantic Terrestrial hearts, sufficiently wretched to charm the most
hardened sadist.
  
 
  "Hurry up, Skkiru," Bbulas said. "They mustn't suspect the existence of
the city underground or we're finished before we've started."
  
 
  "For my part, I wish we'd never started," Skkiru grumbled. "What was
wrong with our old culture, anyway?"
  
 
  That was intended as a rhetorical question, but Bbulas answered it
anyway. He always answered questions; it had never seemed to penetrate
his mind that school-days were long since over.
  
 
  "I've told you a thousand times that our old culture was too much like
the Terrans' own to be of interest to them," he said, with affected
weariness. "After all, most civilized societies are basically similar;
it is only primitive societies that differ sharply, one from the
other—and we have to be different to attract Earthmen. They're pretty
choosy. You've got to give them what they want, and that's what they
want. Now take up your post on the edge of the field, try to look
hungry, and remember this isn't for you or for me, but for Snaddra."
  
 
  "For Snaddra," Larhgan said, placing her hand over her anterior heart
in a gesture which, though devout on Earth—or so the fictapes seemed
to indicate—was obscene on Snaddra, owing to the fact that certain
essential organs were located in different areas in the Snaddrath than
in the corresponding Terrestrial life-form. Already the Terrestrial
influence was corrupting her, Skkiru thought mournfully. She had been
such a nice girl, too.
  
 
  "We may never meet on equal terms again, Skkiru," she told him, with a
long, soulful glance that made his hearts sink down to his quivering
toes, "but I promise you there will never be anyone else for me—and
I hope that knowledge will inspire you to complete cooperation with
Bbulas."
  
 
  "If that doesn't," Bbulas said, "I have other methods of inspiration."
  
 
  "All right," Skkiru answered sulkily. "I'll go to the edge of the
field, and I'll speak broken Inter-galactic, and I'll forsake my normal
habits and customs, and I'll even
   
   beg
   
  . But I don't have to like doing
it, and I don't intend to like doing it."
  
 
  All three of Larhgan's eyes fuzzed with emotion. "I'm proud of you,
Skkiru," she said brokenly.
  
 
  Bbulas sniffed. The three of them floated up to ground level in a
triple silence.
  
