When Eric regained consciousness the people of the city were all about
him. They were very fair, and the women were more beautiful than music.
Yet now they stared at him with red hate in their eyes. An older man
came forward and struck at the copper hat with a stick. The clang
deafened Eric and the man cried, "You are right. It is Eric the Bronze.
Bring the ships and let him be scourged from the city."
  
 
  The man drew back the stick and struck again, and Eric's back took
fire with the blow. The crowd chanted, "Whips, bring the whips," and
fear forced Eric to his feet. He fled then, running on the heedless
feet of panic, outstripping those who were behind him until he passed
through the great gates into the red dust floor of the canal. The gates
closed behind him, and the dust beat upon him, and he paused, his heart
hammering inside his chest like a great bell clapper. He turned and
looked behind to be sure he was safe.
  
 
  The towers twinkled at him, and the music whispered to him, "Come back,
Eric North. Come back to the city."
  
 
  He turned and stumbled back to the great gate and hammered on it until
his fists were raw, pleading for it to open and let him back.
  
 
  And deep inside him some part of his mind said, "This is a madness you
cannot escape. The city is evil, an evil like you have never known,"
and a fear as old as time coursed through his frame.
  
 
  He seized the copper hat from his head, and beat on the lotus carvings
of the great door, crying, "Let me in! Please, take me back into the
city."
  
 
  And as he beat the city changed. It became dull and sordid and evil, a
city of disgust, with every part offensive to the eye. The spires and
minarets were gargoyles of hatred, twisted and misshapen, and the sound
of the city was a macabre song of hate.
  
 
  He stared, and his back was chill with superstitions as old as the
beginning of man. The city flickered, changing before his eyes until it
was beautiful again.
  
 
  He stood, amazed, and put the metal hat back on his head. With the
motion the shift took place again, and beauty was ugliness. Amazed, he
stared at the illusion, and the thought came to him that the metal hat
had not entirely failed him after all.
  
 
  He turned and began to walk away from the city, and when it began to
call he took the hat off his head and found peace for a time. Then when
it began again he replaced the hat, and revulsion sped his footsteps.
And so, hat on, hat off, he made his way down the dusty floor of the
canal, and up the rocky sides until he stood on the Martian desert, and
the canal was a thin line behind him. He breathed easily then, for he
was beyond the range of the illusions.
  
 
  And now that his mind was his own again he began to study the problem,
and to understand something of the nature of the forces against which
he had been pitted.
  
 
  The helmet contained an electrical circuit, designed as a shield
against electrical waves tuned to affect his brain. But the hat had
failed because the city, whatever it was, had adjusted to this revised
pattern as he had approached it. Hence, the helmet had been no defense
against illusion. However, when he had jerked the helmet off suddenly
to beat on the door, his mental pattern had changed, too suddenly, and
the machine caught up only after he had glimpsed another image. Then as
the illusion adjusted replacing the helmet threw it off again.
  
 
  He grinned wryly. He would have liked to know more about the city,
whatever it was. He would have liked to know more about the people he
had seen, whether they were real or part of the illusion, and if they
were as ugly as the second city had been.
  
 
  Yet the danger was too great. He would go back to his ship and make the
arrangements to destroy the city. The ship was armed, and to deliver
indirect fire over the edge of the canal would be simple enough. Garve
North, his brother, waited back at the ship. If he knew of the city he
would have to go there. Eric must not take a chance on that. After they
had blasted whatever it was that lay in the canal floor, then it would
be time enough to tell Garve, and go down to see what was left.
  
 
  The ship rested easily on the flat sandstone area where he had
established base camp. Its familiar lines brought a smile to Eric's
face, a feeling of confidence now that tools and weapons were his again.
  
 
  He opened the door and entered. The lock doors were left open so that
he could enter directly into the body of the ship. He came in in a
swift leap, calling, "Garve! Hey, Garve, where are you?"
  
 
  The ship remained mute. He prowled through it, calling, "Garve,"
wondering where the young hothead had gone, and then he saw a note
clipped to the control board of the ship. He tore it loose impatiently
and began to read. Garve had scrawled:
  
 
  "Funny thing, Eric. A while ago I thought I heard music. I walked down
to the canal, and it seemed like there were lights, and a town of some
sort far down the canal. I wanted to investigate, but thought I'd
better come back. But the thing has been in my mind for hours now, and
I'm going down to see what it is. If you want to follow, come straight
down the canal."
  
 
  Eric stared at the note, and the line of his jaw was white. Apparently
Garve had seen the city from farther away, and its effect had not been
so strong. Even so, Garve's natural curiosity had done the rest.
  
 
  Garve had gone down to the city, and Garve had no shielded hat. Eric
selected two high explosive grenades from the ship's arsenal. They
were small but they packed a lot of power. He had a pistol packed
with smaller pellets of the same explosive, and he had the hat. That
should be adequate. He thrust the bronze hat back on his head and began
walking back to the canal.
  
