It was quiet as Karl guided his mount along the dimly marked trail
and he caught himself thinking of the return trip he would be making
that night. It would be nice to have somebody new to talk to. And it
would be good to have somebody to help with the trapping and tanning,
somebody who could tend the small vegetable garden at the rear of his
shack and mend his socks and wash his clothes and cook his meals.
  
 
  And it was time, he thought soberly, that he started to raise a family.
He was mid-twenty now, old enough to want a wife and children.
  
 
  "You going to raise a litter, Joe?"
  
 
  Hill started. Karl realized that he had probably been thinking of the
same thing.
  
 
  "One of these days I'll need help around the sawmill," Hill answered
defensively. "Need some kids to cut the trees, a couple more to pole
them down the river, some to run the mill itself and maybe one to sell
the lumber in Landing City. Can't do it all myself."
  
 
  He paused a moment, thinking over something that had just occurred to
him.
  
 
  "I've been thinking of your plans for a garden, Karl. Maybe I ought to
have one for my wife to take care of, too."
  
 
  Karl chuckled. "I don't think she'll have the time!"
  
 
  They left the leafy expanse of the forest and entered the grasslands
that sloped toward Landing City. He could even see Landing City itself
on the horizon, a smudge of rusting, corrugated steel shacks, muddy
streets, and the small rocket port—a scorched thirty acres or so
fenced off with barbed wire.
  
 
  Karl looked out of the corner of his eye at Hill and felt a vague wave
of uneasiness. Hill was a big, thick man wearing the soiled clothes and
bristly stubble of a man who was used to living alone and who liked
it. But once he took a wife, he would probably have to keep himself in
clean clothes and shave every few days. It was even possible that the
woman might object to Hill letting his yllumph share the hut.
  
 
  The path was getting crowded, more of the colonists coming onto the
main path from the small side trails.
  
 
  Hill broke the silence first. "I wonder what they'll be like."
  
 
  Karl looked wise and nodded knowingly. "They're Earthwomen, Joe.
   
   Earth!
   
  "
  
 
  It was easy to act as though he had some inside information, but Karl
had to admit to himself that he actually knew very little about it. He
was a Second System colonist and had never even seen an Earthwoman.
He had heard tales, though, and even discounting a large percentage
of them, some of them must have been true. Old Grundy at the rocket
office, who should know about these things if anybody did, seemed
disturbingly lacking on definite information, though he had hinted
broadly enough. He'd whistle softly and wink an eye and repeat the
stories that Karl had already heard; but he had nothing
   
   definite
   
  to
offer, no real facts at all.
  
 
  Some of the other colonists whom they hadn't seen for the last few
months shouted greetings, and Karl began to feel some of the carnival
spirit. There was Jenkins, who had another trapping line fifty miles
farther up the Karazoo; Leonard, who had the biggest farm on Midplanet;
and then the fellow who specialized in catching and breaking in
yllumphs, whose name Karl couldn't remember.
  
 
  "They say they're good workers," Hill said.
  
 
  Karl nodded. "Pretty, too."
  
 
  They threaded their way through the crowded and muddy streets. Landing
City wasn't big, compared to some of the cities on Altair, where he had
been raised, but Karl was proud of it. Some day it would be as big as
any city on any planet—maybe even have a population of ten thousand
people or more.
  
 
  "Joe," Karl said suddenly, "what's supposed to make women from Earth
better than women from any other world?"
  
 
  Hill located a faint itch and frowned. "I don't know, Karl. It's hard
to say. They're—well, sophisticated, glamorous."
  
 
  Karl absorbed this in silence. Those particular qualities were, he
thought, rather hard to define.
  
 
  The battered shack that served as rocket port office and headquarters
for the colonial office on Midplanet loomed up in front of them. There
was a crowd gathered in front of the building and they forced their way
through to see what had caused it.
  
 
  "We saw this the last time we were here," Hill said.
  
 
  "I know," Karl agreed, "but I want to take another look." He was
anxious to glean all the information that he could.
  
 
  It was a poster of a beautiful woman leaning toward the viewer. The
edges of the poster were curling and the colors had faded during the
last six months, but the girl's smile seemed just as inviting as ever.
She held a long-stemmed goblet in one hand and was blowing a kiss to
her audience with the other. Her green eyes sparkled, her smile was
provocative. A quoted sentence read: "I'm from
   
   Earth
   
  !" There was
nothing more except a printed list of the different solar systems to
which the colonial office was sending the women.
  
 
 
 
  She was real pretty, Karl thought. A little on the thin side, maybe,
and the dress she was wearing would hardly be practical on Midplanet,
but she had a certain something. Glamour, maybe?
  
 
  A loudspeaker blared.
  
 
  "All colonists waiting for the wife draft assemble for your numbers!
All colonists...."
  
 
  There was a jostling for places and then they were in the rapidly
moving line. Grundy, fat and important-looking, was handing out little
blue slips with numbers on them, pausing every now and then to tell
them some entertaining bit of information about the women. He had a
great imagination, nothing else.
  
 
  Karl drew the number 53 and hurried to the grassy lot beside the
landing field that had been decorated with bunting and huge welcome
signs for the new arrivals. A table was loaded with government
pamphlets meant to be helpful to newly married colonists. Karl went
over and stuffed a few in his pockets. Other tables had been set out
and were loaded with luncheon food, fixed by the few colonial women in
the community. Karl caught himself eyeing the women closely, wondering
how the girls from Earth would compare with them.
  
 
  He fingered the ticket in his pocket. What would the woman be like
who had drawn the companion number 53 aboard the rocket? For when it
landed, they would pair up by numbers. The method had its drawbacks, of
course, but time was much too short to allow even a few days of getting
acquainted. He'd have to get back to his trapping lines and he imagined
that Hill would have to get back to his sawmill and the others to their
farms. What the hell, you never knew what you were getting either way,
till it was too late.
  
 
  "Sandwich, mister? Pop?"
  
 
  Karl flipped the boy a coin, picked up some food and a drink, and
wandered over to the landing field with Hill. There were still ten
minutes or so to go before the rocket landed, but he caught himself
straining his sight at the blue sky, trying to see a telltale flicker
of exhaust flame.
  
 
  The field was crowded and he caught some of the buzzing conversation.
  
 
  "... never knew one myself, but let me tell you...."
  
 
  "... knew a fellow once who married one, never had a moment's rest
afterward...."
  
 
  "... no comparison with colonial women. They got culture...."
  
 
  "... I'd give a lot to know the girl who's got number twenty-five...."
  
 
  "Let's meet back here with the girls who have picked our numbers," Hill
said. "Maybe we could trade."
  
 
  Karl nodded, though privately he felt that the number system was just
as good as depending on first impressions.
  
 
  There was a murmur from the crowd and he found his gaze riveted
overhead. High above, in the misty blue sky, was a sudden twinkle of
fire.
  
 
  He reached up and wiped his sweaty face with a muddy hand and brushed
aside a straggly lock of tangled hair. It wouldn't hurt to try to look
his best.
  
 
  The twinkling fire came nearer.
  
 
 
  II
  
 
  "A Mr. Macdonald to see you, Mr. Escher."
  
 
  Claude Escher flipped the intercom switch.
  
 
  "Please send him right in."
  
 
  That was entirely superfluous, he thought, because MacDonald would come
in whether Escher wanted him to or not.
  
 
  The door opened and shut with a slightly harder bang than usual and
Escher mentally braced himself. He had a good hunch what the problem
was going to be and why it was being thrown in their laps.
  
 
  MacDonald made himself comfortable and sat there for a few minutes,
just looking grim and not saying anything. Escher knew the psychology
by heart. A short preliminary silence is always more effective in
browbeating subordinates than an initial furious bluster.
  
 
  He lit a cigarette and tried to outwait MacDonald. It wasn't
easy—MacDonald had great staying powers, which was probably why he was
the head of the department.
  
 
  Escher gave in first. "Okay, Mac, what's the trouble? What do we have
tossed in our laps now?"
  
 
  "You know the one—colonization problem. You know that when we first
started to colonize, quite a large percentage of the male population
took to the stars, as the saying goes. The adventuresome, the gamblers,
the frontier type all decided they wanted to head for other worlds, to
get away from it all. The male of the species is far more adventuresome
than the female; the men left—but the women didn't. At least, not in
nearly the same large numbers.
  
 
  "Well, you see the problem. The ratio of women to men here on Earth is
now something like five to three. If you don't know what that means,
ask any man with a daughter. Or any psychiatrist. Husband-hunting isn't
just a pleasant pastime on Earth. It's an earnest cutthroat business
and I'm not just using a literary phrase."
  
 
  He threw a paper on Escher's desk. "You'll find most of the statistics
about it in that, Claude. Notice the increase in crimes peculiar to
women. Shoplifting, badger games, poisonings, that kind of thing. It's
quite a list. You'll also notice the huge increase in petty crimes, a
lot of which wouldn't have bothered the courts before. In fact, they
wouldn't even have been considered crimes. You know why they are now?"
  
 
  Escher shook his head blankly.
  
 
  "Most of the girls in the past who didn't catch a husband," MacDonald
continued, "grew up to be the type of old maid who's dedicated to
improving the morals and what-not of the rest of the population. We've
got more puritanical societies now than we ever had, and we have more
silly little laws on the books as a result. You can be thrown in the
pokey for things like violating a woman's privacy—whatever that
means—and she's the one who decides whether what you say or do is a
violation or not."
  
 
  Escher looked bored. "Not to mention the new prohibition which
forbids the use of alcohol in everything from cough medicines to hair
tonics. Or the cleaned up moral code that reeks—if you'll pardon the
expression—of purity. Sure, I know what you mean. And you know the
solution. All we have to do is get the women to colonize."
  
 
  MacDonald ran his fingers nervously through his hair.
  
 
  "But it won't be easy, and that's why it's been given to us. It's your
baby, Claude. Give it a lot of thought. Nothing's impossible, you know."
  
 
  "Perpetual motion machines are," Escher said quietly. "And pulling
yourself up by your boot-straps. But I get the point. Nevertheless,
women just don't want to colonize. And who can blame them? Why should
they give up living in a luxury civilization, with as many modern
conveniences as this one, to go homesteading on some wild, unexplored
planet where they have to work their fingers to the bone and play
footsie with wild animals and savages who would just as soon skin them
alive as not?"
  
 
  "What do you advise I do, then?" MacDonald demanded. "Go back to the
Board and tell them the problem is not solvable, that we can't think of
anything?"
  
 
  Escher looked hurt. "Did I say that? I just said it wouldn't be easy."
  
 
  "The Board is giving you a blank check. Do anything you think will pay
off. We have to stay within the letter of the law, of course, but not
necessarily the spirit."
  
 
  "When do they have to have a solution?"
  
 
  "As soon as possible. At least within the year. By that time the
situation will be very serious. The psychologists say that what will
happen then won't be good."
  
 
  "All right, by then we'll have the answer."
  
 
  MacDonald stopped at the door. "There's another reason why they want it
worked out. The number of men applying to the Colonization Board for
emigration to the colony planets is falling off."
  
 
  "How come?"
  
 
  MacDonald smiled. "On the basis of statistics alone, would you want to
emigrate from a planet where the women outnumber the men five to three?"
  
 
  When MacDonald had gone, Escher settled back in his chair and idly
tapped his fingers on the desk-top. It was lucky that the Colonization
Board worked on two levels. One was the well-publicized, idealistic
level where nothing was too good and every deal was 99 and 44/100 per
cent pure. But when things got too difficult for it to handle on that
level, they went to Escher and MacDonald's department. The coal mine
level. Nothing was too low, so long as it worked. Of course, if it
didn't work, you took the lumps, too.
  
 
  He rummaged around in his drawer and found a list of the qualifications
set up by the Board for potential colonists. He read the list slowly
and frowned. You had to be physically fit for the rigors of space
travel, naturally, but some of the qualifications were obviously silly.
You couldn't guarantee physical perfection in the second generation,
anyway.
  
 
  He tore the qualification list in shreds and dropped it in the disposal
chute. That would have to be the first to go.
  
 
  There were other things that could be done immediately. For one thing,
as it stood now, you were supposed to be financially able to colonize.
Obviously a stupid and unappealing law. That would have to go next.
  
 
  He picked up the sheet of statistics that MacDonald had left and read
it carefully. The Board could legalize polygamy, but that was no
solution in the long run. Probably cause more problems than it would
solve. Even with women as easy to handle as they were nowadays, one was
still enough.
  
 
  Which still left him with the main problem of how to get people to
colonize who didn't
   
   want
   
  to colonize.
  
 
  The first point was to convince them that they wanted to. The second
point was that it might not matter whether they wanted to or not.
  
 
  No, it shouldn't be hard to solve at all—provided you held your nose,
silenced your conscience, and were willing to forget that there was
such a thing as a moral code.
  
 
 
  III
  
 
  Phyllis Hanson put the cover over her typewriter and locked the
correspondence drawer. Another day was done, another evening about to
begin.
  
 
  She filed into the washroom with the other girls and carefully redid
her face. It was getting hard to disguise the worry lines, to paint
away the faint crow's-feet around her eyes.
  
 
  She wasn't, she admitted to herself for the thousandth time, what you
would call beautiful. She inspected herself carefully in her compact
mirror. In a sudden flash of honesty, she had to admit that she wasn't
even what you would call pretty. Her face was too broad, her nose a
fraction too long, and her hair was dull. Not homely, exactly—but not
pretty, either.
  
 
  Conversation hummed around her, most of it from the little group in the
corner, where the extreme few who were married sat as practically a
race apart. Their advice was sought, their suggestions avidly followed.
  
 
  "Going out tonight, Phyl?"
  
 
  She hesitated a moment, then slowly painted on the rest of her mouth.
The question was technically a privacy violator, but she thought she
would sidestep it this time, instead of refusing to answer point-blank.
  
 
  "I thought I'd stay home tonight. Have a few things I want to rinse
out."
  
 
  The black-haired girl next to her nodded sympathetically. "Sure, Phyl,
I know what you mean. Just like the rest of us—waiting for the phone
to ring."
  
 
  Phyllis finished washing up and then left the office, carefully noting
the girl who was waiting for the boss. The girl was beautiful in a hard
sort of way, a platinum blonde with an entertainer's busty figure.
Waiting for a plump, middle-aged man like a stagestruck kid outside a
theatre.
  
 
  At home, in her small two-room bachelor-girl apartment, she stripped
and took a hot, sudsing shower, then stepped out and toweled herself in
front of a mirror. She frowned slightly. You didn't know whether you
should keep yourself in trim just on some off-chance, or give up and
let yourself go.
  
 
  She fixed dinner, took a moderately long time doing the dishes, and
went through the standard routine of getting a book and curling up on
the sofa. It was a good book of the boot-legged variety—scientifically
written with enough surplus heroes and heroines and lushly described
love affairs to hold anybody's interest.
  
 
  It held hers for ten pages and then she threw the book across the room,
getting a savage delight at the way the pages ripped and fluttered to
the floor.
  
 
  What was the use of kidding herself any longer, of trying to live
vicariously and hoping that some day she would have a home and a
husband? She was thirty now; the phone hadn't rung in the last three
years. She might as well spend this evening as she had spent so many
others—call up the girls for a bridge game and a little gossip, though
heaven knew you always ended up envying the people you were gossiping
about.
  
 
  Perhaps she should have joined one of the organizations at the office
that did something like that seven nights out of every seven. A bridge
game or a benefit for some school or a talk on art. Or she could have
joined the Lecture of the Week club, or the YWCA, or any one of the
other government-sponsored clubs designed to fill the void in a woman's
life.
  
 
  But bridge games and benefits and lectures didn't take the place of a
husband and family. She was kidding herself again.
  
 
  She got up and retrieved the battered book, then went over to the mail
slot. She hadn't had time to open her mail that morning; most of the
time it wasn't worth the effort. Advertisements for book clubs, lecture
clubs, how to win at bridge and canasta....
  
 
  Her fingers sprang the metal tabs on a large envelope and she took out
the contents and spread it wide.
  
 
  She gasped. It was a large poster, about a yard square. A man was on
it, straddling a tiny city and a small panorama of farms and forests
at his feet. He was a handsome specimen, with wavy blond hair and blue
eyes and a curly mat on his bare chest that was just enough to be
attractive without being apelike. He held an axe in his hands and was
eyeing her with a clearly inviting look of brazen self-confidence.
  
 
 
   It was definitely a privacy violator and she should notify the
authorities immediately!
   
 
 
  Bright lettering at the top of the poster shrieked: "Come to the
Colonies, the Planets of Romance!"
  
 
 
 
 
   Whoever had mailed it should be arrested and imprisoned! Preying
on....
   
 
 
  The smaller print at the bottom was mostly full of facts and figures.
The need for women out on the colony planets, the percentage of men to
women—a startling disproportion—the comfortable cities that weren't
nearly as primitive as people had imagined, and the recently reduced
qualifications.
  
 
  She caught herself admiring the man on the poster. Naturally, it was an
artist's conception, but even so....
  
 
  And the cities were far in advance of the frontier settlements, where
you had to battle disease and dirty savages.
  
 
  It was all a dream. She had never done anything like this and she
wouldn't think of doing it now. And had any of her friends seen the
poster? Of course, they probably wouldn't tell her even if they had.
  
 
 
   But the poster was a violation of privacy. Whoever had sent it had
taken advantage of information that was none of their business. It was
up to her to notify the authorities!
   
 
