 
 
  THE PLAGUE
  
 
 
 
 
 
  By TEDDY KELLER
  
 
 
 
 
   Suppose a strictly one hundred per cent American plague
showed up.... One that attacked only people within the
political borders of the United States!
   
 
 
 
 
  Illustrated by Schoenherr
  
 
 
  Sergeant Major Andrew McCloud ignored the jangling telephones and the
excited jabber of a room full of brass, and lit a cigarette. Somebody
had to keep his head in this mess. Everybody was about to flip.
  
 
  Like the telephone. Two days ago Corporal Bettijean Baker had been
answering the rare call on the single line—in that friendly, husky
voice that gave even generals pause—by saying, "Good morning. Office
of the Civil Health and Germ Warfare Protection Co-ordinator." Now
there was a switchboard out in the hall with a web of lines running to
a dozen girls at a half dozen desks wedged into the outer office. And
now the harried girls answered with a hasty, "Germ War Protection."
  
 
  All the brass hats in Washington had suddenly discovered this office
deep in the recesses of the Pentagon. And none of them could quite
comprehend what had happened. The situation might have been funny, or
at least pathetic, if it hadn't been so desperate. Even so, Andy
McCloud's nerves and patience had frayed thin.
  
 
  "I told you, general," he snapped to the flustered brigadier, "Colonel
Patterson was retired ten days ago. I don't know what happened. Maybe
this replacement sawbones got strangled in red tape. Anyhow, the
brand-new lieutenant hasn't showed up here. As far as I know, I'm in
charge."
  
 
  "But this is incredible," a two-star general wailed. "A mysterious
epidemic is sweeping the country, possibly an insidious germ attack
timed to precede an all-out invasion, and a noncom is sitting on top
of the whole powder keg."
  
 
  Andy's big hands clenched into fists and he had to wait a moment
before he could speak safely. Doggone the freckles and the unruly mop
of hair that give him such a boyish look. "May I remind you, general,"
he said, "that I've been entombed here for two years. My staff and I
know what to do. If you'll give us some co-operation and a priority,
we'll try to figure this thing out."
  
 
  "But good heavens," a chicken colonel moaned, "this is all so
irregular. A noncom!" He said it like a dirty word.
  
 
  "Irregular, hell," the brigadier snorted, the message getting through.
"There're ways. Gentlemen, I suggest we clear out of here and let the
sergeant get to work." He took a step toward the door, and the other
officers, protesting and complaining, moved along after him. As they
drifted out, he turned and said, "We'll clear your office for top
priority." Then dead serious, he added, "Son, a whole nation could
panic at any moment. You've got to come through."
  
 
  Andy didn't waste time standing. He merely nodded to the general,
snubbed out his cigarette, and buzzed the intercom. "Bettijean, will
you bring me all the latest reports, please?" Then he peeled out of
his be-ribboned blouse and rolled up his sleeves. He allowed himself
one moment to enjoy the sight of the slim, black-headed corporal who
entered his office.
  
