 
  The Blue Behemoth
  
 
  By LEIGH BRACKETT
  
 
  Shannon's Imperial Circus was a jinxed
   
  space-carny leased for a mysterious tour
   
  of the inner worlds. It made a one-night
   
  pitch on a Venusian swamp-town—to
   
  find that death stalked it from the
   
  jungle in a tiny ball of flame.
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Planet Stories May 1943.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  Bucky Shannon leaned forward across the little hexagonal table. He
knocked over the pitcher of
   
   thil
   
  , but it didn't matter. The pitcher
was empty. He jabbed me in the breastbone with his forefinger, not
very hard. Not hard enough to jar the ribs clean loose, just enough to
spring them.
  
 
  "We," he said, "are broke. We are finished, through. Washed up and
down the drain." He added, as an afterthought, "Destitute."
  
 
  I looked at him. I said sourly, "You're kidding!"
  
 
  "Kidding." Shannon put his elbows on the table and peered at me through
a curtain of very blond hair that was trying hard to be red. "He says
I'm kidding! With Shannon's Imperial Circus, the Greatest Show in
Space, plastered so thick with attachments...."
  
 
  "It's no more plastered than you are." I was sore because he'd been a
lot quicker grabbing the pitcher. "The Greatest Show in Space. Phooey!
I've wet-nursed Shannon's Imperial Circus around the Triangle for
eleven years, and I know. It's lousy, it's mangy, it's broken-down!
Nothing works, from the ship to the roustabouts. In short, it stinks!"
  
 
  I must have had the pitcher oftener than I thought. Nobody insults
Buckhalter Shannon's Imperial Circus to Buckhalter Shannon's face
unless he's tired and wants a long rest in a comfy fracture-frame.
  
 
  Shannon got up. He got up slowly. I had plenty of time to see his
grey-green eyes get sleepy, and hear the quarter-Earth-blood Martian
girl wailing about love over by the battered piano, and watch the
slanting cat-eyes of the little dark people at the tables swing round
toward us, pleased and kind of hungry.
  
 
  I had plenty of time to think how I only weigh one-thirty-seven to
Shannon's one-seventy-five, and how I'm not as young as I used to be.
  
 
  I said, "Bucky. Hold on, fella. I...."
  
 
  Somebody said, "Excuse me, gentlemen. Is one of you Mister Buckhalter
Shannon?"
  
 
  Shannon put his hands down on his belt. He closed his eyes and smiled
pleasantly and said, very gently:
  
 
  "Would you be collecting for the feed bill, or the fuel?"
  
 
  I shot a glance at the newcomer. He'd saved me from a beating, even if
he was a lousy bill-collecter; and I felt sorry for him. Bucky Shannon
settled his shoulders and hips like a dancer.
  
 
  The stranger was a little guy. He even made me look big. He was dressed
in dark-green synthesilk, very conservative. There was a powdering of
grey in his hair and his skin was pink, soft, and shaved painfully
clean. He had the kind of a face that nice maiden-ladies will trust
with their last dime. I looked for his strong-arm squad.
  
 
  There didn't seem to be any. The little guy looked at Shannon with pale
blue eyes like a baby, and his voice was softer than Bucky's.
  
 
  He said, "I don't think you understand."
  
 
  I felt cold, suddenly, between the shoulders. Somebody scraped a chair
back. It sounded like he'd ripped the floor open, it was so quiet. I
got my brassies on, and my hands were sweating. Bucky Shannon sighed,
and let his fist start traveling, a long, deceptive arc.
  
 
  Then I saw what the little guy was holding in his hand.
  
 
  I yelled and knocked the table over into Bucky. It made a lot of noise.
It knocked him sideways and down, and the little dark men jumped up,
quivering and showing their teeth. The Martian girl screamed.
  
 
  Bucky heaved the table off his lap and cursed me. "What's eating you,
Jig? I'm not going to hurt him."
  
 
  "Shut up," I said. "Look what he's got there. Money!"
  
 
  The little guy looked at me. He hadn't turned a hair. "Yes," he said.
"Money. Quite a lot of it. Would you gentlemen permit me to join you?"
  
 
  Bucky Shannon got up. He grinned his pleasantest grin. "Delighted. I'm
Shannon. This is Jig Bentley, my business manager." He looked down at
the table. "I'm sorry about that. Mistaken identity."
  
 
  The little guy smiled. He did it with his lips. The rest of his face
stayed placid and babyish, almost transparent. I realized with a start
that it wasn't transparent at all. It was the most complete dead-pan I
ever met, and you couldn't see into those innocent blue eyes any more
than you could see through sheet metal.
  
 
  I didn't like him. I didn't like him at all. But he had money. I said,
"Howdy. Let's go find a booth. These Marshies make me nervous, looking
like hungry cats at a mouse-hole."
  
 
  The little guy nodded. "Excellent idea. My name is Beamish. Simon
Beamish. I wish to—ah—charter your circus."
  
