Most of the cousins gasped as the truth began to percolate through.
  
 
  "I knew from the very beginning," Conrad finished, "that I didn't
have to do anything at all. I just had to wait and you would destroy
yourselves."
  
 
  "I don't understand," Bartholomew protested, searching the faces of the
cousins closest to him. "What does he mean, we have never existed?
We're here, aren't we? What—"
  
 
  "Shut up!" Raymond snapped. He turned on Martin. "You don't seem
surprised."
  
 
  The old man grinned. "I'm not. I figured it all out years ago."
  
 
  At first, he had wondered what he should do. Would it be better to
throw them into a futile panic by telling them or to do nothing? He
had decided on the latter; that was the role they had assigned him—to
watch and wait and keep out of things—and that was the role he would
play.
  
 
  "You knew all the time and you didn't tell us!" Raymond spluttered.
"After we'd been so good to you, making a gentleman out of you instead
of a criminal.... That's right," he snarled, "a criminal! An alcoholic,
a thief, a derelict! How do you like that?"
  
 
  "Sounds like a rich, full life," Martin said wistfully.
  
 
  What an exciting existence they must have done him out of! But then, he
couldn't help thinking, he—he and Conrad together, of course—had done
them out of
   
   any
   
  kind of existence. It wasn't his responsibility,
though; he had done nothing but let matters take whatever course was
destined for them. If only he could be sure that it was the better
course, perhaps he wouldn't feel that nagging sense of guilt inside
him. Strange—where, in his hermetic life, could he possibly have
developed such a queer thing as a conscience?
  
 
  "Then we've wasted all this time," Ninian sobbed, "all this energy, all
this money, for nothing!"
  
 
  "But you were nothing to begin with," Martin told them. And then,
after a pause, he added, "I only wish I could be sure there had been
some purpose to this."
  
 
  He didn't know whether it was approaching death that dimmed his sight,
or whether the frightened crowd that pressed around him was growing
shadowy.
  
 
  "I wish I could feel that some good had been done in letting you be
wiped out of existence," he went on voicing his thoughts. "But I know
that the same thing that happened to your worlds and my world will
happen all over again. To other people, in other times, but again. It's
bound to happen. There isn't any hope for humanity."
  
 
  One man couldn't really change the course of human history, he told
himself. Two men, that was—one real, one a shadow.
  
 
  Conrad came close to the old man's bed. He was almost transparent.
  
 
  "No," he said, "there is hope. They didn't know the time transmitter
works two ways. I used it for going into the past only once—just this
once. But I've gone into the future with it many times. And—" he
pressed Martin's hand—"believe me, what I did—what
   
   we
   
  did, you and
I—serves a purpose. It will change things for the better. Everything
is going to be all right."
  
