Untrimmed sumacs threw late-afternoon shadows on the discolored stucco
facade of the Elsby Public Library. Inside, Tremaine followed a
paper-dry woman of indeterminate age to a rack of yellowed newsprint.
  
 
  "You'll find back to nineteen-forty here," the librarian said. "The
older are there in the shelves."
  
 
  "I want nineteen-oh-one, if they go back that far."
  
 
  The woman darted a suspicious look at Tremaine. "You have to handle
these old papers carefully."
  
 
  "I'll be extremely careful." The woman sniffed, opened a drawer, leafed
through it, muttering.
  
 
  "What date was it you wanted?"
  
 
  "Nineteen-oh-one; the week of May nineteenth."
  
 
  The librarian pulled out a folded paper, placed it on the table,
adjusted her glasses, squinted at the front page. "That's it," she
said. "These papers keep pretty well, provided they're stored in the
dark. But they're still flimsy, mind you."
  
 
  "I'll remember." The woman stood by as Tremaine looked over the front
page. The lead article concerned the opening of the Pan-American
Exposition at Buffalo. Vice-President Roosevelt had made a speech.
Tremaine leafed over, reading slowly.
  
 
  On page four, under a column headed
   
   County Notes
   
  he saw the name Bram:
  
 
  Mr. Bram has purchased a quarter section of fine grazing land,
north of town, together with a sturdy house, from J. P. Spivey of
Elsby. Mr. Bram will occupy the home and will continue to graze a
few head of stock. Mr. Bram, who is a newcomer to the county, has
been a resident of Mrs. Stoate's Guest Home in Elsby for the past
months.
  
 
  "May I see some earlier issues; from about the first of the year?"
  
 
  The librarian produced the papers. Tremaine turned the pages, read the
heads, skimmed an article here and there. The librarian went back to
her desk. An hour later, in the issue for July 7, 1900, an item caught
his eye:
  
 
  A Severe Thunderstorm. Citizens of Elsby and the country were much
alarmed by a violent cloudburst, accompanied by lightning and
thunder, during the night of the fifth. A fire set in the pine
woods north of Spivey's farm destroyed a considerable amount of
timber and threatened the house before burning itself out along
the river.
  
 
  The librarian was at Tremaine's side. "I have to close the library now.
You'll have to come back tomorrow."
  
 
  Outside, the sky was sallow in the west: lights were coming on in
windows along the side streets. Tremaine turned up his collar against a
cold wind that had risen, started along the street toward the hotel.
  
 
  A block away a black late-model sedan rounded a corner with a faint
squeal of tires and gunned past him, a heavy antenna mounted forward
of the left rear tail fin whipping in the slipstream. Tremaine stopped
short, stared after the car.
  
 
  "Damn!" he said aloud. An elderly man veered, eyeing him sharply.
Tremaine set off at a run, covered the two blocks to the hotel, yanked
open the door to his car, slid into the seat, made a U-turn, and headed
north after the police car.
  
