 
 
  THE FIRST MAN INTO SPACE
  
 
  Cadet Marshall Farnsworth woke from a
nightmare of exploding novae and fouling rockets.
After recovering from his fright, he laughed contemptuously
at himself. “Here I was picked as the
most stable of a group of two hundred cadets,” he
thought, “and chosen to make man’s first trip into
space, yet I’m shaking like a leaf.”
  
 
  He got out of bed and went over to the window.
From his father’s temporary apartment, he could
see distant Skyharbor, the scene of the plunge into
space tomorrow night. He had been awarded the
frightening honor of making that trip.
  
 10
  
  As he watched teardrop cars whip along Phoenix,
Arizona’s, double-decked streets, elevated over one
another to avoid dangerous intersections and delaying
stop lights, he thought back over the years; to
the 1950’s, when mice and monkeys were sent up
in Vikings to launch mankind’s first probing of the
mysterious space beyond Earth, and the first satellites
were launched; to the 1960’s, when huger,
multiple-stage rockets finally conquered the problem
of escape velocity; to 1975—today—when man
was finally ready to send one of his own kind into
the uninhabited deeps.
  
 
  Marsh climbed back into bed, but sleep would
not come.
  
 
  In the adjoining room, he could hear the footsteps
of mother and father. By their sound he knew
they were the footsteps of worried people. This
hurt Marsh more than his own uneasiness.
  
 
  The anxiety had begun for them, he knew, when
he had first signed up for space-cadet training. They
had known there was an extremely high percentage
of washouts, and after each test he passed, they had
pretended to be glad. But Marsh knew that inwardly
they had hoped he would fail, for they were
aware of the ultimate goal that the space scientists
were working for—the goal that had just now been
reached.
  
 
  Marsh finally fell into a troubled sleep that lasted
until morning.
  
 
  He woke early, before the alarm rang. He got
up, showered, pulled on his blue-corded cadet uniform,
and tugged on the polished gray boots. He
took one final look around his room as though in
farewell, then went out to the kitchen.
  
 11
  
  His folks were up ahead of time too, trying to
act as though it were just another day. Dad was pretending
to enjoy his morning paper, nodding only
casually to Marsh as he came in. Mom was stirring
scrambled eggs in the skillet, but she wasn’t a very
good actor, Marsh noticed, for she furtively wiped
her eyes with her free hand.
  
 
  The eggs were cooked too hard and the toast had
to be scraped, but no one seemed to care. The three
of them sat down at the table, still speaking in
monosyllables and of unimportant things. They
made a pretense of eating.
  
 
  “Well, Mom,” Dad suddenly said with a forced
jollity that was intended to break the tension, “the
Farnsworth family has finally got a celebrity in it.”
  
 
  “I don’t see why they don’t send an older man!”
Mom burst out, as though she had been holding it
in as long as she could. “Sending a boy who isn’t
even twenty-two—”
  
 
  “Things are different nowadays, Mom,” Dad explained,
still with the assumed calmness that
masked his real feelings. “These days, men grow
up faster and mature quicker. They’re stronger and
more alert than older men—” His voice trailed off
as if he were unable to convince himself.
  
 
  “
   
   Some
   
  body has to go,” Marsh said. “Why not a
younger man without family and responsibility?
That’s why they’re giving younger men more opportunities
today than they used to.”
  
 
  “It’s not younger men I’m talking about!” Mom
blurted. “It’s you, Marsh!”
  
 12
  
  Dad leaned over and patted Mom on the shoulder.
“Now, Ruth, we promised not to get excited
this morning.”
  
 
  “I’m sorry,” Mom said weakly. “But Marsh is too
young to—” She caught herself and put her hand
over her mouth.
  
 
  “Stop talking like that!” Dad said. “Marsh is
coming back. There’ve been thousands of rockets
sent aloft. The space engineers have made sure that
every bug has been ironed out before risking a
man’s life. Why, that rocket which Marsh is going
up in is as safe as our auto in the garage, isn’t it,
Marsh?”
  
 
  “I hope so, Dad,” Marsh murmured.
  
 
 
  Later, as Dad drove Marsh to the field, each
brooded silently. Every scene along the way seemed
to take on a new look for Marsh. He saw things
that he had never noticed before. It was an uncomfortable
feeling, almost as if he were seeing these
things for the last as well as the first time.
  
 
  Finally the airport came into view. The guards
at the gate recognized Marsh and ushered the
Farnsworth car through ahead of scores of others
that crowded the entrance. Some eager news photographers
slipped up close and shot off flash bulbs
in Marsh’s eyes.
  
 
  Skyharbor, once a small commercial field, had
been taken over by the Air Force in recent years
and converted into the largest rocket experimental
center in the United States.
  
 13
  
  Dad drove up to the building that would be the
scene of Marsh’s first exhaustive tests and briefings.
He stopped the car, and Marsh jumped out. Their
good-by was brief. Marsh saw his father’s mouth
quiver. There was a tightness in his own throat. He
had gone through any number of grueling tests to
prove that he could take the rigors of space, but
not one of them had prepared him for the hardest
moments of parting.
  
 
  When Dad had driven off, Marsh reported first
to the psychiatrist who checked his condition.
  
 
  “Pulse fast, a rise in blood pressure,” he said.
“You’re excited, aren’t you, son?”
  
 
  “Yes, sir,” Marsh admitted. “Maybe they’ve got
the wrong man, sir. I might fail them.”
  
 
  The doctor grinned. “They don’t have the wrong
man,” he said. “They might have, with a so-called
iron-nerved fellow. He could contain his tension
and fears until later, until maybe the moment of
blast-off. Then he’d let go, and when he needed his
calmest judgment he wouldn’t have it. No, Marshall,
there isn’t a man alive who could make this
history-making flight without some anxiety. Forget
it. You’ll feel better as the day goes on. I’ll see you
once more before the blast-off.”
  
 
  Marsh felt more at ease already. He went on to
the space surgeon, was given a complete physical
examination, and was pronounced in perfect condition.
Then began his review briefing on everything
he would encounter during the flight.
  
 14
  
  Blast-off time was for 2230, an hour and a half
before midnight. Since at night, in the Western
Hemisphere, Earth was masking the sun, the complications
of excessive temperatures in the outer
reaches were avoided during the time Marsh would
be outside the ship. Marsh would occupy the small
upper third section of a three-stage rocket. The first
two parts would be jettisoned after reaching their
peak velocities. Top speed of the third stage would
carry Marsh into a perpetual-flight orbit around
Earth, along the route that a permanent space station
was to be built after the results of the flight
were studied. After spending a little while in this
orbit, Marsh would begin the precarious journey
back to Earth, in gliding flight.
  
 
  He got a few hours of sleep after sunset. When
an officer shook him, he rose from the cot he had
been lying on in a private room of General Forsythe,
Chief of Space Operations.
  
 
  “It’s almost time, son,” the officer said. “Your
CO wants to see you in the outside office.”
  
 
  Marsh went into the adjoining room and found
his cadet chief awaiting him. The youth detected an
unusual warmth about the severe gentleman who
previously had shown only a firm, uncompromising
attitude. Colonel Tregasker was past middle age,
and his white, sparse hair was smoothed down close
to his head in regulation neatness.
  
 15
  
  “Well, this is it, Marshall,” the colonel said.
“How I envy you this honor of being the first human
to enter space. However, I do feel that a part
of me is going along too, since I had a small share
in preparing you for the trip. If the training was
harsh at times, I believe that shortly you will
understand the reason for it.”
  
 
  “I didn’t feel that the Colonel was either too soft
or strict, sir,” Marsh said diplomatically.
  
 
  A speaker out on the brilliantly lit field blared
loudly in the cool desert night: “X minus forty
minutes.”
  
 
  “We can’t talk all night, Marshall,” the colonel
said briskly. “You’ve got a job to do. But first, a few
of your friends want to wish you luck.” He called
into the anteroom, “You may come in, gentlemen!”
  
 
  There filed smartly into the room ten youths who
had survived the hard prespace course with Marsh
and would be his successors in case he failed tonight.
They formed a line and shook hands with
Marsh. The first was Armen Norton who had gotten
sick in the rugged centrifuge at a force of 9 G’s,
then had rallied to pass the test.
  
 
  “Good luck, Marsh,” he said.
  
 
  Next was lanky Lawrence Egan who had been
certain he would wash out during navigation phase
in the planetarium. “All the luck in the world,
Marsh,” he added.
  
 
  Each cadet brought back a special memory of his
training as they passed before him, wishing him
success.
  
 16
  
  When they had gone and the speaker outside
had announced: “X minus thirty minutes,” the
colonel said that he and Marsh had better be leaving.
Colonel Tregasker was to be Marsh’s escort to
the ship.
  
 
  Photographers and newspapermen swarmed
about them as they climbed into the jeep that was
to take them to the launching site farther out on
the field. Questions were flung at the two from all
sides, but the colonel deftly maneuvered the jeep
through the mob and sped off over the asphalt.
  
 
  At the blast-off site, Marsh could see that the
police had their hands full keeping out thousands
of spectators who were trying to get into the closed-off
area. The field was choked with a tide of humanity
milling about in wild confusion. Giant searchlights,
both at the airport and in other parts of
Phoenix, directed spears of light on the towering
rocket that held the interest of all the world tonight.
There was one light, far larger than the rest,
with powerful condensing lenses and connected to
a giant radar screen, which would guide Marsh
home from his trip among the stars.
  
 
  A high wire fence surrounded the launching
ramp and blockhouses. International scientists and
dignitaries with priorities formed a ring around
the fence, but even they were not allowed inside
the small circle of important activity. The guards
waved the colonel and Marsh through the gate.
  
 17
  
  Marsh had spent many weeks in a mock-up of the
tiny third stage in which he was to spend his time
aloft, but he had never been close to the completely
assembled ship until this moment. The three stages
had been nicknamed, “Tom,” “Dick,” and “Harry.”
Marsh swallowed as his eyes roved up the side of
the great vessel, part of a project that had cost millions
to perfect and was as high as a four-story
building.
  
 
  The gigantic base, “Big Tom,” was the section
that would have the hardest job to do, that of
thrusting the rocket through the densest part of the
atmosphere, and this was a great deal larger than
the other sections. Marsh knew that most of the
ship’s bulk was made up of the propellant fuel of
hydrazine hydrate and its oxidizer, nitric acid.
  
 
  “We’re going into that blockhouse over there,”
Colonel Tregasker said. “You’ll don your space gear
in there.”
  
 
  First a multitude of gadgets with wires were fastened
to the cadet’s wrists, ankles, nose, and head.
Marsh knew this to be one of the most important
phases of the flight—to find out a man’s reaction to
space flight under actual rocketing conditions. Each
wire would telemeter certain information by radio
back to the airport. After a tight inner G suit had
been put on to prevent blackout, the plastic and
rubber outer garment was zipped up around Marsh,
and then he was ready except for his helmet, which
would not be donned until later.
  
 18
  
  Marsh and the colonel went back outside. The
open-cage elevator was lowered from the top of the
big latticed platform that surrounded the rocket.
The two got into the cage, and it rose with them.
Marsh had lost most of his anxiety and tension
during the activities of the day, but his knees felt
rubbery in these final moments as the elevator carried
him high above the noisy confusion of the airport.
   
   This was it.
   
 
 
  As they stepped from the cage onto the platform
of the third stage, Marsh heard the speaker below
call out: “X minus twenty minutes.”
  
 
  There were eleven engineers and workmen on
the platform readying the compartment that Marsh
would occupy. Marsh suddenly felt helpless and
alone as he faced the small chamber that might
very well be his death cell. Its intricate dials and
wires were staggering in their complexity.
  
 
  Marsh turned and shook hands with Colonel Tregasker.
“Good-by, sir,” he said in a quavering voice.
“I hope I remember everything the Corps taught
me.” He tried to smile, but his facial muscles
twitched uncontrollably.
  
 
  “Good luck, son—lots of it,” the officer said
huskily. Suddenly he leaned forward and embraced
the youth with a firm, fatherly hug. “This is not
regulations,” he mumbled gruffly, “but hang regulations!”
He turned quickly and asked to be carried
down to the ground.
  
 
  A man brought Marsh’s helmet and placed it
over his head, then clamped it to the suit. Knobs
on the suit were twisted, and Marsh felt a warm,
pressurized helium-oxygen mixture fill his suit and
headpiece.
  
 19
  
  Marsh stepped through the hatch into the small
compartment. He reclined in the soft contour
chair, and the straps were fastened by one of the
engineers over his chest, waist, and legs. The wires
connected to various parts of his body had been
brought together into a single unit in the helmet.
A wire cable leading from the panel was plugged
into the outside of the helmet to complete the circuit.
  
 
  Final tests were run off to make sure everything
was in proper working order, including the two-way
short-wave radio that would have to penetrate the
electrical ocean of the ionosphere. Then the double-hatch
air lock was closed. Through his helmet receiver,
Marsh could hear the final minutes and seconds
being called off from inside the blockhouse.
  
 
  “Everything O.K.?” Marsh was asked by someone
on the platform.
  
 
  “Yes, sir,” Marsh replied.
  
 
  “Then you’re on your own,” were the final ominous
words.
  
 
  “X minus five minutes,” called the speaker.
  
 20
  
  It was the longest five minutes that Marsh could
remember. He was painfully aware of his cramped
quarters. He thought of the tons of explosive beneath
him that presently would literally blow him
sky-high. And he thought of the millions of people
the world over who, at this moment, were hovering
at radios and TV’s anxiously awaiting the dawn of
the space age. Finally he thought of Dad and Mom,
lost in that multitude of night watchers, and among
the few who were not primarily concerned with the
scientific aspect of the experiment. He wondered if
he would ever see them again.
  
 
  “X minus sixty seconds!”
  
 
  Marsh knew that a warning flare was being sent
up, to be followed by a whistle and a cloud of
smoke from one of the blockhouses. As he felt fear
trying to master him, he began reviewing all the
things he must remember and, above all, what to
do in an emergency.
  
 
  “X minus ten seconds—five—four—three—two—one—FIRE!”
  
 
  There was a mighty explosion at Skyharbor.
  
 
  The initial jolt which Marsh felt was much fiercer
than the gradually built up speed of the whirling
centrifuge in training. He was crushed deeply into
his contour chair. It felt as though someone were
pressing on his eyeballs; indeed, as if every organ in
his body were clinging to his backbone. But these
first moments would be the worst. A gauge showed
a force of 7 G’s on him—equal to half a ton.
  
 
  He watched the Mach numbers rise on the dial
in front of his eyes on an overhead panel. Each
Mach number represented that much times the
speed of sound, 1,090 feet per second, 740 miles an
hour.
  
 
  Marsh knew “Big Tom” would blast for about a
minute and a half under control of the automatic
pilot, at which time it would drop free at an altitude
of twenty-five miles and sink Earthward in a
metal mesh ’chute.
  
 21
  
  Marsh’s hurting eyes flicked to the outside temperature
gauge. It was on a steady 67 degrees below
zero Fahrenheit, and would be until he reached
twenty miles. A reflecting prism gave him a square
of view of the sky outside. The clear deep blue of
the cloud-free stratosphere met his eyes.
  
 
  Mach 5, Mach 6, Mach 7 passed very quickly. He
heard a rumble and felt a jerk. “Big Tom” was
breaking free. The first hurdle had been successfully
overcome, and the ship had already begun tilting
into its trajectory.
  
 
  There was a new surge of agony on his body as
the second stage picked up the acceleration at a
force of 7 G’s again. Marsh clamped his jaws as the
force pulled his lips back from his teeth and
dragged his cheek muscles down. The Mach numbers
continued to rise—11, 12, 13—to altitude 200
miles, the outer fringe of the earth’s atmosphere.
There was a slight lifting of the pressure on his
body. The rocket was still in the stratosphere, but
the sky was getting purple.
  
 
  Mach 14—10,000 miles an hour.
  
 
  “Dick” would jettison any moment. Marsh had
been aloft only about four minutes, but it had
seemed an age, every tortured second of it.
  
 22
  
  There was another rumble as the second stage
broke free. Marsh felt a new surge directly beneath
him as his own occupied section, “Harry,” began
blasting. It was comforting to realize he had successfully
weathered those tons of exploding hydrazine
and acid that could have reduced him to nothing
if something had gone wrong. Although his
speed was still building up, the weight on him
began to ease steadily as his body’s inertia finally
yielded to the sickeningly swift acceleration.
  
 
  The speedometer needle climbed to Mach 21, the
peak velocity of the rocket, 16,000 miles per hour.
His altitude was 350 miles—man’s highest ascent.
Slowly then, the speedometer began to drop back.
Marsh heard the turbo pumps and jets go silent as
the “lift” fuel was spent and rocket “Harry” began
its free-flight orbit around Earth.
  
 
  The ship had reached a speed which exactly
counterbalanced the pull of gravity, and it could,
theoretically, travel this way forever, provided no
other outside force acted upon it. The effect on
Marsh now was as if he had stopped moving. Relieved
of the viselike pressure, his stomach and
chest for a few seconds felt like inflated balloons.
  
 
  “Cadet Farnsworth,” the voice of General Forsythe
spoke into his helmet receiver, “are you all
right?”
  
 
  “Yes, sir,” Marsh replied. “That is, I think so.”
  
 
  It was good to hear a human voice again, something
to hold onto in this crazy unreal world into
which he had been hurtled.
  
 
  “We’re getting the electronic readings from your
gauges O.K.,” the voice went on. “The doctor says
your pulse is satisfactory under the circumstances.”
  
 
  It was queer having your pulse read from 350
miles up in the air.
  
 23
  
  Marsh realized, of course, that he was not truly
in the “air.” A glance at his air-pressure gauge confirmed
this. He was virtually in a vacuum. The temperature
and wind velocity outside might have astounded
him if he were not prepared for the readings.
The heat was over 2000 degrees Fahrenheit,
and the wind velocity was of hurricane force! But
these figures meant nothing because of the sparseness
of air molecules. Temperature and wind applied
only to the individual particles, which were
thousands of feet apart.
  
 
  “How is your cosmic-ray count?” asked the general.
  
 
  Marsh checked the C-ray counter on the panel
from which clicking sounds were coming. “It’s low,
sir. Nothing to worry about.”
  
 
  Cosmic rays, the most powerful emanations
known, were the only radiation in space that could
not be protected against. But in small doses they
had been found not to be dangerous.
  
 
  “As soon as our recorders get more of the figures
your telemeter is giving us,” the operations chief
said, “you can leave the rocket.”
  
 
  When Marsh got the O.K. a few minutes later,
he eagerly unstrapped the belts around his body.
He could hardly contain his excitement at being
the first person to view the globe of Earth from
space. As he struggled to his feet, the lightness of
zero gravity made him momentarily giddy, and it
took some minutes for him to adjust to the terribly
strange sensation.
  
 24
  
  He had disconnected the cable leading from his
helmet to the ship’s transmitter and switched on
the ship’s fast-lens movie camera that would photograph
the area covered by “Harry.” Then he was
ready to go outside. He pressed a button on the
wall, and the first air-lock hatch opened. He floated
into the narrow alcove and closed the door in the
cramped chamber behind him. He watched a
gauge, and when it showed normal pressure and
temperature again, he opened the outside hatch,
closing it behind him. Had Marsh permitted the
vacuum of space to contact the interior of the
ship’s quarters, delicate instruments would have
been ruined by the sudden decompression and loss
of heat. Marsh fastened his safety line to the ship
so that there was no chance of his becoming separated
from it.
  
 
  Then he looked “downward,” to experience the
thrill of his life. Like a gigantic relief map, the
panorama of Earth stretched across his vision. A
downy blanket of gray atmosphere spread over the
whole of it, and patches of clouds were seen floating
like phantom shapes beneath the clear vastness
of the stratosphere. It was a stunning sight for
Marsh, seeing the pinpoint lights of the night cities
extending from horizon to horizon. It gave him
an exhilarating feeling of being a king over it all.
  
 25
  
  Earth appeared to be rotating, but Marsh knew
it was largely his own and the rocket’s fast speed
that was responsible for the illusion. As he hung
in this region of the exosphere, he was thankful for
his cadet training in zero gravity. A special machine,
developed only in recent years, simulated
the weightlessness of space and trained the cadets
for endurance in such artificial conditions.
  
 
  “Describe some of the things you see, Marshall,”
General Forsythe said over Marsh’s helmet receiver.
“I’ve just cut in a recorder.”
  
 
  “It’s a scene almost beyond description, sir,”
Marsh said into the helmet mike. “The sky is
thickly powdered with stars. The Milky Way is very
distinct, and I can make out lots of fuzzy spots that
must be star clusters and nebulae and comets. Mars
is like an extremely bright taillight, and the moon
is so strong it hurts my eyes as much as the direct
sun does on earth.”
  
 
  Marsh saw a faintly luminous blur pass beyond
the ship. It had been almost too sudden to catch.
He believed it to be a meteor diving Earthward at
a speed around forty-five miles a second. He reported
this to the general.
  
 
  As he brought his eyes down from the more distant
fixtures of space to those closer by on Earth, a
strange thing happened. He was suddenly seized
with a fear of falling, although his zero-gravity
training had been intended to prepare him against
this very thing. A cold sweat come out over his
body, and an uncontrollable panic threatened to
take hold of him.
  
 26
  
  He made a sudden movement as though to catch
himself. Forgetting the magnification of motion in
frictionless space and his own weightlessness, he
was shot quickly to the end of his safety line like a
cracked whip. His body jerked at the taut end and
then sped swiftly back in reaction toward the ship,
head foremost. A collision could crack his helmet,
exposing his body to decompression, causing him
to swell like a balloon and finally explode.
  
 
  In the grip of numbing fear, only at the last moment
did he have the presence of mind to flip
his body in a half-cartwheel and bring his boots up
in front of him for protection. His feet bumped
against the rocket’s side, and the motion sent him
hurtling back out to the end of the safety line
again. This back-and-forth action occurred several
times before he could stop completely.
  
 
  “I’ve got to be careful,” he panted to himself,
as he thought of how close his space career had
come to being ended scarcely before it had begun.
  
 
  General Forsythe cut in with great concern, wondering
what had happened. When Marsh had explained
and the general seemed satisfied that Marsh
had recovered himself, he had Marsh go on with his
description.
  
 
  His senseless fear having gone now, Marsh looked
down calmly, entranced as the features of the
United States passed below his gaze. He named the
cities he could identify, also the mountain ranges,
lakes, and rivers, explaining just how they looked
from 350 miles up. In only a fraction of an hour’s
time, the rocket had traversed the entire country
and was approaching the twinkling phosphorescence
of the Atlantic.
  
 27
  
  Marsh asked if “Tom” and “Dick” had landed
safely.
  
 
  “‘Tom’ landed near Roswell, New Mexico,” General
Forsythe told him, “and the ’chute of the second
section has been reported seen north of Dallas.
I think you’d better start back now, Marshall. It’ll
take us many months to analyze all the information
we’ve gotten. We can’t contact you very well on the
other side of the world either, and thirdly, I don’t
want you exposed to the sun’s rays outside the
atmosphere in the Eastern Hemisphere any longer
than can be helped.”
  
 
  Marsh tugged carefully on his safety line and
floated slowly back toward the ship. He entered
the air lock. Then, inside, he raised the angle of his
contour chair to upright position, facing the console
of the ship’s manual controls for the glide
Earthward. He plugged in his telemeter helmet
cable and buckled one of the straps across his waist.
  
 
  Since he was still moving at many thousands of
miles an hour, it would be suicide to plunge
straight downward. He and the glider would be
turned into a meteoric torch. Rather, he would
have to spend considerable time soaring in and out
of the atmosphere in braking ellipses until he
reached much lower speed. Then the Earth’s gravitational
pull would do the rest.
  
 28
  
  This was going to be the trickiest part of the operation,
and the most dangerous. Where before,
Marsh had depended on automatic controls to
guide him, now much of the responsibility was on
his own judgment. He remembered the many
hours he had sweated through to log his flying
time. Now he could look back on that period in his
training and thank his lucky stars for it.
  
 
  He took the manual controls and angled into the
atmosphere. He carefully watched the AHF dial—the
atmospheric heat friction gauge. When he had
neared the dangerous incendiary point, with the
ship having literally become red-hot, he soared into
the frictionless vacuum again. He had to keep this
up a long time in order to reduce his devastating
speed.
  
 
  It was something of a shock to him to leave the
black midnight of Earth’s slumbering side for the
brilliant hemisphere where the people of Europe
and Asia were going about their daytime tasks. He
would have liked to study this other half of the
world which he had glimpsed only a few times before
in his supersonic test flights, but he knew this
would have to wait for future flights.
  
 
  Finally, after a long time, his velocity was slowed
enough so that the tug of gravity was stronger than
the rocket’s ability to pull up out of the atmosphere.
At this point, Marsh cut in “Harry’s” forward
braking jets to check his falling speed.
  
 
  “There’s something else to worry about,” he
thought to himself. “Will old Harry hold together
or will he fly apart in the crushing atmosphere?”
  
 29
  
  The directional radio signals from the powerful
Skyharbor transmitter were growing stronger as
Marsh neared the shores of California. He could
see the winking lights of San Diego and Los
Angeles, and farther inland the swinging thread
that was the beacon at Skyharbor. All planes in his
path of flight had been grounded for the past few
hours because of the space flight. The only ground
light scanning the skies was the gigantic space beacon
in Phoenix.
  
 
  When Marsh reached Arizona, he began spiraling
downward over the state to kill the rest of his
altitude and air speed. Even now the plane was a
hurtling supersonic metal sliver streaking through
the night skies like a comet. He topped the snow-capped
summits of the towering San Francisco
Peaks on the drive southward, and he recognized
the sprawling serpent of the Grand Canyon. Then
he was in the lower desert regions of moon-splashed
sand and cactus. Although the fire-hot temperature
of the outer skin had subsided, there had been damage
done to the walls and instruments, and possibly
to other parts, too. Marsh was worried lest his outside
controls might be too warped to give him a
good touchdown, if indeed he could get down safely
at all.
  
 
  A few thousand feet up, Marsh lowered his landing
gear. Now the only problem left was to land
himself and the valuable ship safely inside the narrow
parallels of the airstrip. He circled the airport
several times as his altitude continued to plummet.
  
 30
  
  The meter fell rapidly. His braking rocket fuel
was gone now. From here on in, he would be on
gliding power alone.
  
 
  “Easy does it, Marshall,” the general said quietly
into his ear. “You’re lining up fine. Level it out a
little and keep straight with the approach lights.
That’s fine. You’re just about in.”
  
 
  The lights of the airport seeming to rush up at
him, Marsh felt a jolt as the wheels touched ground
on the west end of the runway. He kept the ship
steady as it scurried along the smooth asphalt, losing
the last of its once tremendous velocity. The
plane hit the restraining wire across the strip and
came to a sudden stop, shoving Marsh hard against
the single safety belt he wore. Finally, incredibly,
the ship was still and he was safe.
  
 
  He unfastened his strap and removed his space
helmet. The heat of the compartment brought the
sweat out on his face. He rose on wobbly legs and
pressed the buttons to the hatches. The last door
flew open to admit the cool, bracing air of Earth
which he had wondered if he would ever inhale
again.
  
 
  His aloneness was over then, suddenly and boisterously,
as men swarmed over him with congratulations,
eager questions, and looks of respect. Reporters’
flash bulbs popped, and he felt like a new
Lindbergh as he was pulled down to the ground
and mobbed. Finally the police came to his rescue
and pushed back the curiosity seekers and newspapermen.
Then only three men were allowed
through the cordon.
  
