The leader of the three, a hawk-faced man with a heavy beard,
unlimbered his rifle. He fingered it, frowning ferociously.
  
 
  "Have no fear," Retief said, smiling graciously. "He who comes as a
guest enjoys perfect safety."
  
 
  A smooth-faced member of the threesome barked an oath and leveled his
rifle at Retief.
  
 
  "Youth is the steed of folly," Retief said. "Take care that the
beardless one does not disgrace his house."
  
 
  The leader whirled on the youth and snarled an order. He lowered the
rifle, muttering. Blackbeard turned back to Retief.
  
 
  "Begone, interlopers," he said. "You disturb the goats."
  
 
  "Provision is not taken to the houses of the generous," Retief said.
"May the creatures dine well ere they move on."
  
 
  "Hah! The goats of the Aga Kaga graze on the lands of the Aga Kaga."
The leader edged his horse close, eyed Retief fiercely. "We welcome no
intruders on our lands."
  
 
  "To praise a man for what he does not possess is to make him appear
foolish," Retief said. "These are the lands of the Boyars. But enough
of these pleasantries. We seek audience with your ruler."
  
 
  "You may address me as 'Exalted One'," the leader said. "Now dismount
from that steed of Shaitan."
  
 
  "It is written, if you need anything from a dog, call him 'sir',"
Retief said. "I must decline to impute canine ancestry to a guest. Now
you may conduct us to your headquarters."
  
 
  "Enough of your insolence!" The bearded man cocked his rifle. "I could
blow your heads off!"
  
 
  "The hen has feathers, but it does not fly," Retief said. "We have
asked for escort. A slave must be beaten with a stick; for a free man,
a hint is enough."
  
 
  "You mock me, pale one. I warn you—"
  
 
  "Only love makes me weep," Retief said. "I laugh at hatred."
  
 
  "Get out of the car!"
  
 
  Retief puffed at his cigar, eyeing the Aga Kagan cheerfully. The youth
in the rear moved forward, teeth bared.
  
 
  "Never give in to the fool, lest he say, 'He fears me,'" Retief said.
  
 
  "I cannot restrain my men in the face of your insults," the bearded Aga
Kagan roared. "These hens of mine have feathers—and talons as well!"
  
 
  "When God would destroy an ant, he gives him wings," Retief said.
"Distress in misfortune is another misfortune."
  
 
  The bearded man's face grew purple.
  
 
  Retief dribbled the ash from his cigar over the side of the car.
  
 
  "Now I think we'd better be getting on," he said briskly. "I've enjoyed
our chat, but we do have business to attend to."
  
 
  The bearded leader laughed shortly. "Does the condemned man beg for the
axe?" he enquired rhetorically. "You shall visit the Aga Kaga, then.
Move on! And make no attempt to escape, else my gun will speak you a
brief farewell."
  
 
  The horsemen glowered, then, at a word from the leader, took positions
around the car. Georges started the vehicle forward, following the
leading rider. Retief leaned back and let out a long sigh.
  
 
  "That was close," he said. "I was about out of proverbs."
  
 
  "You sound as though you'd brought off a coup," Georges said. "From the
expression on the whiskery one's face, we're in for trouble. What was
he saying?"
  
 
  "Just a routine exchange of bluffs," Retief said. "Now when we get
there, remember to make your flattery sound like insults and your
insults sound like flattery, and you'll be all right."
  
 
  "These birds are armed. And they don't like strangers," Georges said.
"Maybe I should have boned up on their habits before I joined this
expedition."
  
 
  "Just stick to the plan," Retief said. "And remember: a handful of luck
is better than a camel-load of learning."
  
