Knof Llud shook his head sorrowfully and took off the spool. That
was from the time when he had grown philosophical after the first
disappointments.
  
 
  He frowned thoughtfully, choosing one more spool that was only four
years old. The recorded voice sounded weary, yet alive with a strange
longing....
  
 
  "We are in the heart of Pleiades; a hundred stars show brilliant on
the screens, each star encircled by a misty halo like lights glowing
through fog, for we are traversing a vast diffuse nebula.
  
 
  "According to plan, the
   
   Quest III
   
  has reached its furthest point from
Earth. Now we turn back along a curve that will take us past many more
stars and stellar systems—but hope is small that any of those will
prove a home for man, as have none of the thousands of stars examined
already.
  
 
  "But what are a few thousand stars in a galaxy of billions? We have
only, as it were, visited a handful of the outlying villages of the
Universe, while the lights of its great cities still blaze far ahead
along the Milky Way.
  
 
  "On flimsy excuses I have had Zost Relyul make observations of the
globular cluster Omega Centauri. There are a hundred thousand stars
there in a volume of space where one finds a few dozen in the Sun's
neighborhood; there if anywhere must circle the planets we seek! But
Omega Centauri is twenty thousand light years away....
  
 
  "Even so—by expending its remaining fuel freely, the
   
   Quest III
   
  could
achieve a velocity that would take us there without dying of senility
of aging too greatly. It would be a one-way journey—even if enough
fuel remained, there would be little point in returning to Earth after
more than forty thousand years. By then our civilization certainly, and
perhaps the human race itself, would have perished from memory.
  
 
  "That was why the planners limited our voyage, and those of the other
   
   Quests
   
  , to less than a thousand years Earth time. Even now, according
to the sociodynamic predictions made then, our civilization—if the
other expeditions failed also—will have reached a dangerously unstable
phase, and before we can get back it may have collapsed completely from
overpopulation.
  
 
  "Why go back, then with the news of our failure? Why not forget about
Earth and go on to Omega Centauri? What use is quixotic loyalty to a
decree five thousand years old, whose makers are dead and which may be
forgotten back there?
  
 
  "Would the crew be willing? I don't know—some of them still show signs
of homesickness, though they know with their minds that everything that
was once 'home' has probably been swept away....
  
 
  "It doesn't matter. Today I gave orders to swing the ship."
  
 
  Savagely Knof Llud stabbed the button that shut off the speaker. Then
he sat for a time with head resting in his hands, staring into nothing.
  
 
  The memory of that fierce impulse to go on still had power to shake
him. A couple of lines of poetry came into his head, as he read them
once in translation from the ancient English....
  
 
  ... for my purpose holds
  
 
  To sail beyond the sunset, and the baths
  
 
  Of all the western stars, until I die.
  
