 
  THE DESERT AND THE STARS
  
 
  BY KEITH LAUMER
  
 
  The Aga Kaga wanted peace—a
   
  piece of everything in sight!
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Worlds of If Science Fiction, November 1962.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  "I'm not at all sure," Under-Secretary Sternwheeler said, "that I fully
understand the necessity for your ... ah ... absenting yourself from
your post of duty, Mr. Retief. Surely this matter could have been dealt
with in the usual way—assuming any action is necessary."
  
 
  "I had a sharp attack of writer's cramp, Mr. Secretary," Retief said.
"So I thought I'd better come along in person—just to be sure I was
positive of making my point."
  
 
  "Eh?"
  
 
  "Why, ah, there were a number of dispatches," Deputy Under-Secretary
Magnan put in. "Unfortunately, this being end-of-the-fiscal-year time,
we found ourselves quite inundated with reports. Reports, reports,
reports—"
  
 
  "Not criticizing the reporting system, are you, Mr. Magnan?" the
Under-Secretary barked.
  
 
  "Gracious, no," Magnan said. "I love reports."
  
 
  "It seems nobody's told the Aga Kagans about fiscal years," Retief
said. "They're going right ahead with their program of land-grabbing on
Flamme. So far, I've persuaded the Boyars that this is a matter for the
Corps, and not to take matters into their own hands."
  
 
  The Under-Secretary nodded. "Quite right. Carry on along the same
lines. Now, if there's nothing further—"
  
 
  "Thank you, Mr. Secretary," Magnan said, rising. "We certainly
appreciate your guidance."
  
 
  "There is a little something further," said Retief, sitting solidly in
his chair. "What's the Corps going to do about the Aga Kagans?"
  
 
  The Under-Secretary turned a liverish eye on Retief. "As Minister
to Flamme, you should know that the function of a diplomatic
representative is merely to ... what shall I say...?"
  
 
  "String them along?" Magnan suggested.
  
 
  "An unfortunate choice of phrase," the Under-Secretary said. "However,
it embodies certain realities of Galactic politics. The Corps must
concern itself with matters of broad policy."
  
 
  "Sixty years ago the Corps was encouraging the Boyars to settle
Flamme," Retief said. "They were assured of Corps support."
  
 
  "I don't believe you'll find that in writing," said the Under-Secretary
blandly. "In any event, that was sixty years ago. At that time a
foothold against Neo-Concordiatist elements was deemed desirable. Now
the situation has changed."
  
 
  "The Boyars have spent sixty years terraforming Flamme," Retief said.
"They've cleared jungle, descummed the seas, irrigated deserts, set out
forests. They've just about reached the point where they can begin to
enjoy it. The Aga Kagans have picked this as a good time to move in.
They've landed thirty detachments of 'fishermen'—complete with armored
trawlers mounting 40 mm infinite repeaters—and another two dozen
parties of 'homesteaders'—all male and toting rocket launchers."
  
 
  "Surely there's land enough on the world to afford space to both
groups," the Under-Secretary said. "A spirit of co-operation—"
  
