"There's something to what you say," I admitted in the face of his
unexpected information. "But I can hardly turn my invention over to
your entirely persuasive salesmen, I'm sure. This is part of the
results of an investigation for the government. Washington will have
to decide what to do with the machine."
  
 
  "Listen, Professor," Carmen began, "the Mafia—"
  
 
  "What makes you think I'm any more afraid of the Mafia than I am of the
F.B.I.? I may have already sealed my fate by letting you in on this
much. Machinegunning is hardly a less attractive fate to me than a poor
security rating. To me, being dead professionally would be as bad as
being dead biologically."
  
 
  Tony Carmen laid a heavy hand on my shoulder. I finally deduced he
intended to be cordial.
  
 
  "Of course," he said smoothly "you have to give this to Washington but
there are
   
   ways
   
  , Professor. I know. I'm a business man—"
  
 
  "You
   
   are
   
  ?" I said.
  
 
  He named some of the businesses in which he held large shares of stock.
  
 
  "You
   
   are
   
  ."
  
 
  "I've had experience in this sort of thing. We simply
   
   leak
   
  the
information to a few hundred well selected persons about all that your
machine can do. We'll call 'em Expendables, because they can expend
anything."
  
 
  "I," I interjected, "planned to call it the Venetti Machine."
  
 
  "Professor, who calls the radio the Marconi these days?"
  
 
  "There are Geiger-Muller Counters, though," I said.
  
 
  "You don't have to give a Geiger counter the sex appeal of a TV set or
a hardtop convertible. We'll call them Expendables. No home will be
complete without one."
  
 
  "Perfect for disposing of unwanted bodies," I mused. "The murder rate
will go alarmingly with those devices within easy reach."
  
 
  "Did that stop Sam Colt or Henry Ford?" Tony Carmen asked reasonably....
  
 
  Naturally, I was aware that the government would
   
   not
   
  be interested in
my machine. I am not a Fortean, a psychic, a psionicist or a screwball.
But the government frequently gets things it doesn't know what to do
with—like airplanes in the 'twenties. When it doesn't know what to do,
it doesn't do it.
  
 
  There have been hundreds of workable perpetual motion machines
patented, for example. Of course, they weren't vices in the strictest
sense of the word. Many of them used the external power of gravity,
they would wear out or slow down in time from friction, but for the
meanwhile, for some ten to two hundred years they would just sit there,
moving. No one had ever been able to figure out what to do with them.
  
 
  I knew the AEC wasn't going to dump tons of radioactive waste (with
some possible future reclaimation value) into a machine which they
didn't believe actually could work.
  
 
  Tony Carmen knew exactly what to do with an Expendable once he got his
hands on it.
  
 
  Naturally, that was what I had been afraid of.
  
