I peeled off my wet shirt and threw it across the corner of my desk,
casting a reproving eye at the pastel air-conditioner in the window. It
wasn't really the machine's fault—The water department reported the
reservoir too low to run water-cooled systems. It would be a day or two
before I could get the gas type into my office.
  
 
  Miss Brown, my secretary, was getting a good look at my pale, bony
chest. Well, for the salary she got, she could stand to look. Of
course, she herself was wearing a modest one-strap sun dress, not
shorts and halters like some of the girls.
  
 
  "My," she observed "it certainly is humid for March, isn't it,
Professor Venetti?"
  
 
  I agreed that it was.
  
 
  She got her pad and pencil ready.
  
 
  "Wheedling form letter to Better Mousetraps. Where are our royalties
for the last quarter of the year? We know we didn't have a full three
months with our Expendable Field in operation on the new traps, but we
want the payola for what we have coming.
  
 
  "Condescending form letter to Humane Lethal Equipment. Absolutely do
not send the California penal system any chambers equipped with our
patented field until legislature officially approves them. We got away
with it in New Mexico, but we're older and wiser now.
  
 
  "Rush priority telegram to President, United States, any time in
the next ten days. Thanks for citation, et cetera. Glad buddy system
working out well in training battlefield disintegrator teams.
  
 
  "Indignant form letter to Arcivox. We do not feel we are properly a
co-respondent in your damage suits. Small children and appliances have
always been a problem, viz ice boxes and refrigerators. Suggest you put
a more complicated latch on the handles of the dangerously inferior
doors you have covering our efficient, patented field."
  
 
  I leaned back and took a breather. There was no getting around it—I
just wasn't happy as a business man. I had been counting on being only
a figurehead in the Expendable Patent Holding Corporation, but Tony
Carmen didn't like office work. And he hadn't anyone he trusted any
more than me. Even.
  
 
  I jerked open a drawer and pulled off a paper towel from the roll I
had stolen in the men's room. Scrubbing my chest and neck with it, I
smoothed it out and dropped it into the wastebasket. It slid down the
tapering sides and through the narrow slot above the Expendable Field.
I had redesigned the wastebaskets after a janitor had stepped in one.
But Gimpy was happy now, with the $50,000 we paid him.
  
 
  I opened my mouth and Miss Brown's pencil perked up its eraser,
reflecting her fierce alertness.
  
 
  Tony Carmen banged open the door, and I closed my mouth.
  
 
  "G-men on the way here," he blurted and collapsed into a chair opposite
Miss Brown.
  
 
  "Don't revert to type," I warned him. "What kind of G-Men? FBI? FCC?
CIA? FDA? USTD?"
  
 
  "Investigators for the Atomic Energy Commission."
  
 
  The solemn, conservatively dressed young man in the door touched the
edge of his snap-brim hat as he said it.
  
 
  "Miss Brown, would you mind letting our visitor use your chair?" I
asked.
  
 
  "Not at all, sir," she said dreamily.
  
 
  "May I suggest," I said, "that we might get more business done if you
then removed yourself from the chair first."
  
 
  Miss Brown leaped to her feet with a healthy galvanic response and quit
the vicinity with her usual efficiency.
  
