In their rooms, Michael and Mary were talking through the hours, and
waiting. All around them were fragile, form-fitting chairs and
translucent walls and a ceiling that, holding the light of the sun
when they had first seen it, was now filled with moonlight.
  
 
  Standing at a circular window, ten feet in diameter, Michael saw, far
below, the lights of the city extending into the darkness along the
shoreline of the sea.
  
 
  "We should have delivered our message by radio," he said, "and gone
back into space."
  
 
  "You could probably still go," she said quietly.
  
 
  He came and stood beside her. "I couldn't stand being out in space, or
anywhere, without you."
  
 
  She looked up at him. "We could go out into the wilderness, Michael,
outside the force walls. We could go far away."
  
 
  He turned from her. "It's all dead. What would be the use?"
  
 
  "I came from the Earth," she said quietly. "And I've got to go back to
it. Space is so cold and frightening. Steel walls and blackness and
the rockets and the little pinpoints of light. It's a prison."
  
 
  "But to die out there in the desert, in that dust." Then he paused and
looked away from her. "We're crazy—talking as though we had a
choice."
  
 
  "Maybe they'll have to
   
   give
   
  us a choice."
  
 
  "What're you talking about?"
  
 
  "They went into hysterics at the sight of those bodies in the picture.
Those young bodies that didn't die of old age."
  
 
  He waited.
  
 
  "They can't stand the sight of people dying violently."
  
 
  Her hand went to her throat and touched the tiny locket.
  
 
  "These lockets were given to us so we'd have a choice between
suffering or quick painless death.... We still have a choice."
  
 
  He touched the locket at his own throat and was very still for a long
moment. "So we threaten to kill ourselves, before their eyes. What
would it do to them?"
  
 
  He was still for a long time. "Sometimes, Mary, I think I don't know
you at all." A pause. "And so now you and I are back where we started.
Which'll it be, space or Earth?"
  
 
  "Michael." Her voice trembled. "I—I don't know how to say this."
  
 
  He waited, frowning, watching her intently.
  
 
  "I'm—going to have a child."
  
 
  His face went blank.
  
 
  Then he stepped forward and took her by the shoulders. He saw the
softness there in her face; saw her eyes bright as though the sun were
shining in them; saw a flush in her cheeks, as though she had been
running. And suddenly his throat was full.
  
 
  "No," he said thickly. "I can't believe it."
  
 
  "It's true."
  
 
  He held her for a long time, then he turned his eyes aside.
  
 
  "Yes, I can see it is."
  
 
  "I—I can't put into words why I let it happen, Michael."
  
 
  He shook his head. "I don't know—what to—to say. It's so
incredible."
  
 
  "Maybe—I got so—tired—just seeing the two of us over and over again
and the culturing of the scar tissue, for twenty centuries. Maybe that
was it. It was just—something I felt I
   
   had
   
  to do. Some—
   
   real
   
  life
again. Something new. I felt a need to produce something out of
myself. It all started way out in space, while we were getting close
to the solar system. I began to wonder if we'd ever get out of the
ship alive or if we'd ever see a sunset again or a dawn or the night
or morning like we'd seen on Earth—so—so long ago. And then I
   
   had
   
  to let it happen. It was a vague and strange thing. There was
something forcing me. But at the same time I wanted it, too. I seemed
to be willing it, seemed to be feeling it was a necessary thing." She
paused, frowning. "I didn't stop to think—it would be like this."
  
 
  "Such a thing," he said, smiling grimly, "hasn't happened on Earth for
three thousand years. I can remember in school, reading in the history
books, how the whole Earth was overcrowded and how the food and water
had to be rationed and then how the laws were passed forbidding birth
and after that how the people died and there weren't any more babies
born, until at last there was plenty of what the Earth had to give,
for everyone. And then the news was broken to everyone about the
culturing of the scar tissue, and there were a few dissenters but they
were soon conditioned out of their dissension and the population was
stabilized." He paused. "After all this past history, I don't think
the council could endure what you've done."
  
 
  "No," she said quietly. "I don't think they could."
  
 
  "And so this will be just for
   
   us
   
  ." He took her in his arms. "If I
remember rightly, this is a traditional action." A pause. "Now I'll go
with you out onto the Earth—if we can swing it. When we get outside
the city, or if we do—Well, we'll see."
  
 
  They were very still together and then he turned and stood by the
window and looked down upon the city and she came and stood beside
him.
  
