 
  The Girls From Fieu Dayol
  
 
  By ROBERT F. YOUNG
  
 
  They were lovely and quick
   
  to learn—and their only
   
  faults were little ones!
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Worlds of If Science Fiction, September 1961.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  Up until the moment when he first looked into Hippolyte Adolphe Taine's
   
   History of English Literature
   
  , Herbert Quidley's penchant for old
books had netted him nothing in the way of romance and intrigue.
Not that he was a stranger to either. Far from it. But hitherto the
background for both had been bedrooms and bars, not libraries.
  
 
  On page 21 of the Taine tome he happened upon a sheet of yellow copy
paper folded in four. Unfolding it, he read:
  
 
 
   asdf ;lkj asdf ;lkj asdf ;lkj asdf ;lkj asdf ;lkj asdf ;lkj
Cai: Sities towms copeis wotnid. Gind snoll doper nckli! Wilbe Fieu
Dayol fot ig habe mot toseo knwo—te bijk weil en snoll doper—Klio,
asdf ;lkj asdf ;lkj asdf ;lkj asdf ;lkj
   
 
 
  Since when, Quidley wondered, refolding the paper and putting it back
in the book, had high-school typing students taken to reading Taine?
Thoughtfully he replaced the book on the shelf and moved deeper into
the literature section.
  
 
  He had just taken down Xenophon's
   
   Anabasis
   
  when he saw the girl walk
in the door.
  
 
  Let it be said forthwith that old books were not the only item on
Herbert Quidley's penchant-list. He liked old wood, too, and old
paintings, not to mention old wine and old whiskey. But most of all he
liked young girls. He especially liked them when they looked the way
Helen of Troy must have looked when Paris took one gander at her and
started building his ladder. This one was tall, with hyacinth hair and
liquid blue eyes, and she had a Grecian symmetry of shape that would
have made Paris' eyes pop had he been around to take notice. Paris
wasn't, but Quidley's eyes, did the job.
  
 
  After coming in the door, the girl deposited a book on the librarian's
desk and headed for the literature section. Quickly Quidley lowered
his eyes to the
   
   Anabasis
   
  and henceforth followed her progress out of
their corners. When she came to the O's she paused, took down a book
and glanced through it. Then she replaced it and moved on to the
P's ... the Q's ... the R's. Barely three feet from him she paused
again and took down Taine's
   
   History of English Literature
   
  .
  
 
  He simply could not believe it. The odds against two persons taking an
interest in so esoteric a volume on a single night in a single library
were ten thousand to one. And yet there was no gainsaying that the
volume was in the girl's hands, and that she was riffling through it
with the air of a seasoned browser.
  
 
  Presently she returned the book to the shelf, selected
another—seemingly at random—and took it over to the librarian's desk.
She waited statuesquely while the librarian processed it, then tucked
it under her arm and whisked out the door into the misty April night.
As soon as she disappeared, Quidley stepped over to the T's and took
Taine down once more. Just as he had suspected. The makeshift bookmark
was gone.
  
 
  He remembered how the asdf-;lkj exercise had given way to several lines
of gibberish and then reappeared again. A camouflaged message? Or was
it merely what it appeared to be on the surface—the efforts of an
impatient typing student to type before his time?
  
 
  He returned Taine to the shelf. After learning from the librarian that
the girl's name was Kay Smith, he went out and got in his hardtop. The
name rang a bell. Halfway home he realized why. The typing exercise had
contained the word "Cai", and if you pronounced it with hard c, you got
"Kai"—or "Kay". Obviously, then, the exercise had been a message, and
had been deliberately inserted in a book no average person would dream
of borrowing.
  
 
  By whom—her boy friend?
  
 
  Quidley winced. He was allergic to the term. Not that he ever let the
presence of a boy friend deter him when he set out to conquer, but
because the term itself brought to mind the word "fiance," and the word
"fiance" brought to mind still another word, one which repelled him
violently. I.e., "marriage". Just the same, he decided to keep Taine's
   
   History
   
  under observation for a while.
  
