Eight hours, three sandwiches and six beers later, Dan roused suddenly
from a light doze and sat up on the cot. Between him and the crowded
shelving, a palely luminous framework was materializing in mid-air.
  
 
  The apparition was an open-work cage—about the size and shape of an
out-house minus the sheathing, Dan estimated breathlessly. Two figures
were visible within the structure, sitting stiffly in contoured chairs.
They glowed, if anything, more brightly than the framework.
  
 
  A faint sound cut into the stillness—a descending whine. The cage
moved jerkily, settling toward the floor. Long blue sparks jumped,
crackling, to span the closing gap; with a grate of metal, the cage
settled against the floor. The spectral men reached for ghostly
switches....
  
 
  The glow died.
  
 
  Dan was aware of his heart thumping painfully under his ribs. His mouth
was dry. This was the moment he'd been planning for, but now that it
was here—
  
 
  Never mind. He took a deep breath, ran over the speeches he had
prepared for the occasion:
  
 
 
   Greeting, visitors from the Future....
   
 
 
  Hopelessly corny. What about:
   
   Welcome to the Twentieth Century....
   
 
 
  No good; it lacked spontaneity. The men were rising, their backs to
Dan, stepping out of the skeletal frame. In the dim light it now
looked like nothing more than a rough frame built of steel pipe, with
a cluster of levers in a console before the two seats. And the thieves
looked ordinary enough: Two men in gray coveralls, one slender and
balding, the other shorter and round-faced. Neither of them noticed
Dan, sitting rigid on the cot. The thin man placed a lantern on the
table, twiddled a knob. A warm light sprang up. The visitors looked at
the stacked shelves.
  
 
  "Looks like the old boy's been doing all right," the shorter man said.
"Fathead's gonna be pleased."
  
 
  "A very gratifying consignment," his companion said. "However, we'd
best hurry, Manny. How much time have we left on this charge?"
  
 
  "Plenty. Fifteen minutes anyway."
  
 
  The thin man opened a package, glanced at a painting.
  
 
  "Ah, magnificent. Almost the equal of Picasso in his puce period."
  
 
  Manny shuffled through the other pictures in the stack.
  
 
  "Like always," he grumbled. "No nood dames. I like nood dames."
  
 
  "Look at this, Manny! The textures alone—"
  
 
  Manny looked. "Yeah, nice use of values," he conceded. "But I still
prefer nood dames, Fiorello."
  
 
  "And this!" Fiorello lifted the next painting. "Look at that gay play
of rich browns!"
  
 
  "I seen richer browns on Thirty-third Street," Manny said. "They was
popular with the sparrows."
  
 
  "Manny, sometimes I think your aspirations—"
  
 
  "Whatta ya talkin? I use a roll-on." Manny, turning to place a painting
in the cage, stopped dead as he caught sight of Dan. The painting
clattered to the floor. Dan stood, cleared his throat. "Uh...."
  
 
  "Oh-oh," Manny said. "A double-cross."
  
 
  "I've—ah—been expecting you gentlemen," Dan said. "I—"
  
 
  "I told you we couldn't trust no guy with nine fingers on each hand,"
Manny whispered hoarsely. He moved toward the cage. "Let's blow,
Fiorello."
  
 
  "Wait a minute," Dan said. "Before you do anything hasty—"
  
 
  "Don't start nothing, Buster," Manny said cautiously. "We're plenty
tough guys when aroused."
  
 
  "I want to talk to you," Dan insisted. "You see, these paintings—"
  
 
  "Paintings? Look, it was all a mistake. Like, we figured this was the
gent's room—"
  
 
  "Never mind, Manny," Fiorello cut in. "It appears there's been a leak."
  
 
  Dan shook his head. "No leak. I simply deduced—"
  
 
  "Look, Fiorello," Manny said. "You chin if you want to; I'm doing a
fast fade."
  
 
  "Don't act hastily, Manny. You know where you'll end."
  
 
  "Wait a minute!" Dan shouted. "I'd like to make a deal with you
fellows."
  
 
  "Ah-hah!" Kelly's voice blared from somewhere. "I knew it! Slane, you
crook!"
  
