 id="chap03">
  CHAPTER III
  
 A Strange Encounter
  
  Lorraine was not too enthusiastic about the proposed
trip to the Brandt estate. Finally she agreed to
it under one condition. They were not to drive all
the way to the house which, she said, was just over
the hilltop. They were to park the car where no
one would see it and follow the path to the fountain.
  
 
  “But suppose we can’t find the path?” asked Judy.
  
 
  “You’ll remember it, won’t you?”
  
 
  Judy thought she would, but she wasn’t too sure.
She and Lois both argued that it would be better to
inquire at the house. Lois knew Helen Brandt slightly.
  
 
  “She’d be glad to show us around. This way it
looks as if we’re planning a crime,” Lois said as they
started off in the blue car she was driving.
  
 
  It was a neat little car, not too conspicuous, and
easy to park in out-of-the-way places. Judy laughed
and said if they did find the fountain she thought
she’d wish for one exactly like it.
  
 
  “Well, you know what your grandmother said
about wishes, don’t you?” Lorraine asked. “If you
let people know about them instead of muttering
them to yourself most of them aren’t so impossible.”
  
 
  “Quite true,” Judy agreed. “I’ll let Peter know
about this one. He’s my Santa Claus, and it will soon
be Christmas. Maybe I should have worn the fur
coat he gave me last year.”
  
 
  “Your reversible’s better in case it rains. It’s too
warm for snow. We picked a perfect day for this
trip,” Lois continued, guiding the car around curves
as it climbed the steep hill beyond Dry Brook Hollow.
  
 
  The trip was a short one. In twenty minutes they
had covered the distance that had seemed such a
long way to Judy when she was riding in her grandfather’s
wagon.
  
 
  “I’ve been thinking about it,” she said, “and I’ve
just about figured out how it happened. I didn’t
think my grandparents knew the Brandts well enough
to pay them a visit, though. We must have looked
queer driving up to a beautiful estate in Grandpa’s
old farm wagon. I do remember that Grandma had
  some hooked rugs to deliver. But that still doesn’t
explain what happened afterwards. When I woke
up in the hammock I was alone in the garden. Horse,
wagon, grandparents—all had disappeared.”
  
 
  “How could they?” asked Lois.
  
 
  “Anyway,” Lorraine began, “you had a chance to
see how beautiful everything was before—”
  
 
  Again she broke off as if there were something
she wanted to tell but didn’t quite dare.
  
 
  “Before what?” questioned Judy.
  
 
  “Oh, nothing. Forget I said anything about it. You
were telling us how you woke up in the hammock,
but you never did explain how you got back home,”
Lorraine reminded her.
  
 
  “Didn’t I?” asked Judy. “I’d forgotten a lot of it,
but it’s beginning to come back now. I do remember
driving home along this road. You see, I thought my
grandparents had left me in the garden for a surprise
and would return for me. I told you I was all alone.
There wasn’t a house in sight.”
  
 
  “The Brandt house is just over the top of this next
hill,” Lois put in.
  
 
  “I know. You told me that. Now I know why I
couldn’t see it. All I could see was a windowless old
tower and a path leading in that direction. Naturally,
I followed it. There’s something about a path in
the woods that always tempts me.”
  
 
  “We know that, Judy. Honey told us all about
your latest mystery. You followed a trail or something.”
  
 
  “Well, this trail led out of the rose garden where
the hammock was and then through an archway,”
Judy continued. “All sorts of little cupids and gnomes
peered out at me from unexpected places. I was
actually scared by the time I reached the old tower.
There wasn’t time to explore it. Just then I heard
the rumble of my grandfather’s wagon and knew he
was driving off without me.”
  
 
  “He was!” Judy’s friends both chorused in surprise,
and Lois asked, “Why would he do a thing like
that?”
  
 
  “I think now it was just to tease me. He did stop
and wait for me after a while,” Judy remembered.
“The rugs were gone. Grandma must have delivered
them, but I didn’t ask where. If she made them for
Mrs. Brandt they may still be there.”
  
 
  “I wouldn’t depend on it,” Lorraine said as they
turned up the narrow road to the Brandt estate.
  
 
  “Watch out!” Judy suddenly exclaimed. “There’s
another car coming.”
  
 
  As Lois swerved to avoid the oncoming car, Lorraine
ducked her head. She kept herself hidden behind
Judy until the car had passed. The man driving
it was a stranger to Judy, but she would remember
his hypnotic, dark eyes and swarthy complexion for a
long time. The soft brown hat he was wearing covered
most of his hair.
  
 
  “What’s the matter with you two?” asked Lois
when the car had passed. “Aren’t you a little old for
playing hide and seek?”
  
 
  “I wasn’t—playing. Let’s not go up there,” Lorraine
begged. “I don’t think the Brandts live there
any more.”
  
 
  “Maybe not, but we can pretend we think they do,
can’t we?” Judy replied a little uncertainly.
  
 
  She was beginning to suspect that Lorraine knew
more about the Brandt estate than she was telling.
  
 
  Lois kept on driving along the narrow, gravelly
road. Soon there were more evergreens and a hedge
of rhododendrons to be seen. They looked very
green next to the leafless trees in the woods beyond.
The sky was gray with white clouds being driven
across it by the wind.
  
 
  “There’s the tower!” Lorraine exclaimed. “I can
see it over to the left. It looks like something out of
Grimm’s Fairy Tales, doesn’t it?”
  
 
  “It looks grim all right,” agreed Judy. “I wonder
what it is.”
  
 
  “I suppose it’s nothing but an old water tower. It
would be fun to explore it, though,” Lois said. “But
if there are new people living here they’ll never give
us permission.”
  
 
  “We might explore it without permission,” Judy
suggested daringly. “Come on!” she urged her friends
as Lois parked the car in a cleared place beside the
road. “Who’s going to stop us? And who wants to
explore a gloomy old tower, anyway? Let’s look for
the fountain.”
  
 
  “Do you think we should?” Lorraine asked. “It
won’t be enchanted. I told you—”
  
 
  “You told us very little,” Lois reminded her. “If
you know anything about the people who live here
now, I think you ought to let us know. Otherwise,
I’m afraid we won’t be very welcome.”
  
 
  “I don’t think they’ll welcome us, anyway. I do
know who they are,” Lorraine admitted. “You remember
Roger Banning from school, don’t you?
I’ve seen him around here. His family must have
acquired sudden wealth, or else he’s just working on
the estate.”
  
 
  “Then you’ve been here lately? Why didn’t you
tell me?” asked Lois. “We always used to go places
together.”
  
 
  “It wasn’t important,” Lorraine replied evasively.
“I was just out for a drive.”
  
 
  “You plutocrats!” laughed Judy. “Each with a
car of your own. You’re not interested in Roger
Banning, are you, Lois? I’m sure you can do better
than that. I did know him slightly, but not from
school. The boys and girls were separated and went
to different high schools by the time we moved to
  Farringdon. I remember his pal, Dick Hartwell, a
lot better. He was in our young people’s group at
church.”
  
 
  “Sh!” Lois cautioned her. “Nice people no longer
mention Dick Hartwell’s name. He’s doing time.”
  
 
  “For what?” asked Judy.
  
 
  Like Peter, her FBI husband, she preferred facts
to gossip.
  
 
  “Forgery, I guess. He stole some checkbooks from
his father’s desk and forged the names of a lot of important
business people. I think he forged some legal
documents, too. Anyway, he went to the Federal Penitentiary.
It was all in the papers,” Lorraine told her.
  
 
  Now Judy did remember. It was something she
would have preferred to forget. She liked to think
she was a good judge of character, and she had taken
Dick Hartwell for a quiet, refined boy who would
never stoop to crime.
  
 
  “I don’t see what all this has to do with the fountain,”
Lois said impatiently. “Are we going to look
for it, or aren’t we?”
  
 
  “Of course we are. That’s what we came for. I
just like to know what a tiger looks like before he
springs at me,” Judy explained.
  
 
  “You seem to think there’s danger in this expedition
of ours, don’t you?” asked Lorraine.
  
 
  “I don’t know what to think. You’re the one who
seems to know the answers, but you’re not telling.
  Hiding your face back there gave you away. You’ve
seen that character who drove down this road and,
for some reason, you were afraid he would see you.
Why, Lorraine? Why didn’t you want to be recognized?”
  
 
  Lorraine hesitated a moment and then replied
evasively, “People don’t generally enter private
estates without an invitation. That’s all.”
  
 
  “I’d better turn the car around,” Lois decided,
“in case we have to leave in a hurry. I don’t expect
we’ll encounter any tigers, but we may be accused
of trespassing.”
  
 
  “I’m sure we will be,” announced Judy as two
dark-coated figures strode down the road toward
them. “You drove right by a
  NO TRESPASSING
  sign,
and this isn’t a welcoming committee coming to
meet us!”
  
 
