The newcomers were indeed humanoid, he saw. Only the peculiarly
pasty color of their skins and their embarrassing lack of antennae
distinguished them visibly from the Snaddrath. They were dressed much
as the Snaddrath had been before they had adopted primitive garb.
  
 
  In fact, the Terrestrials were quite decent-looking life-forms,
entirely different from the foppish monsters Skkiru had somehow
expected to represent the cultural ruling race. Of course, he had
frequently seen pictures of them, but everyone knew how easily those
could be retouched. Why, it was the Terrestrials themselves, he had
always understood, who had invented the art of retouching—thus proving
beyond a doubt that they had something to hide.
  
 
  "Look, Raoul," the older of the two Earthmen said in Terran—which
the Snaddrath were not, according to the master plan, supposed to
understand, but which most of them did, for it was the fashionable
third language on most of the outer planets. "A beggar. Haven't seen
one since some other chaps and I were doing a spot of field work on
that little planet in the Arcturus system—what was its name? Glotch,
that's it. Very short study, it turned out to be. Couldn't get more
than a pamphlet out of it, as we were unable to stay long enough to
amass enough material for a really definitive work. The natives tried
to eat us, so we had to leave in somewhat of a hurry."
  
 
  "Oh, they were cannibals?" the other Earthman asked, so respectfully
that it was easy to deduce he was the subordinate of the two. "How
horrible!"
  
 
  "No, not at all," the other assured him. "They weren't human—another
species entirely—so you could hardly call it cannibalism. In fact, it
was quite all right from the ethical standpoint, but abstract moral
considerations seemed less important to us than self-preservation
just then. Decided that, in this case, it would be best to let the
missionaries get first crack at them. Soften them up, you know."
  
 
  "And the missionaries—did they soften them up, Cyril?"
  
 
  "They softened up the missionaries, I believe." Cyril laughed. "Ah,
well, it's all in the day's work."
  
 
  "I hope these creatures are not man-eaters," Raoul commented, with
a polite smile at Cyril and an apprehensive glance at the oncoming
procession—
   
   creatures indeed
   
  ! Skkiru thought, with a mental sniff.
"We have come such a long and expensive way to study them that it would
be indeed a pity if we also were forced to depart in haste. Especially
since this is my first field trip and I would like to make good at it."
  
 
  "Oh, you will, my boy, you will." Cyril clapped the younger man on the
shoulder. "I have every confidence in your ability."
  
 
  Either he was stupid, Skkiru thought, or he was lying, in spite of
Bbulas' asseverations that untruth was unknown to Terrestrials—which
had always seemed highly improbable, anyway. How could any intelligent
life-form possibly stick to the truth all the time? It wasn't human; it
wasn't even humanoid; it wasn't even polite.
  
 
  "The natives certainly appear to be human enough," Raoul added, with
an appreciative glance at the females, who had been selected for the
processional honor with a view to reported Terrestrial tastes. "Some
slight differences, of course—but, if two eyes are beautiful, three
eyes can be fifty per cent lovelier, and chartreuse has always been my
favorite color."
  
 
 
   If they stand out here in the cold much longer, they are going to turn
bright yellow.
   
  His own skin, Skkiru knew, had faded from its normal
healthy emerald to a sickly celadon.
  
