 
  THE FIVE HELLS OF ORION
  
 
  BY FREDERICK POHL
  
 
  Out in the great gas cloud of the Orion
   
  Nebula McCray found an ally—and a foe!
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Worlds of If Science Fiction, January 1963.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  His name was Herrell McCray and he was scared.
  
 
  As best he could tell, he was in a sort of room no bigger than a prison
cell. Perhaps it was a prison cell. Whatever it was, he had no business
in it; for five minutes before he had been spaceborne, on the Long Jump
from Earth to the thriving colonies circling Betelgeuse Nine. McCray
was ship's navigator, plotting course corrections—not that there were
any, ever; but the reason there were none was that the check-sightings
were made every hour of the long flight. He had read off the azimuth
angles from the computer sights, automatically locked on their beacon
stars, and found them correct; then out of long habit confirmed the
locking mechanism visually. It was only a personal quaintness; he had
done it a thousand times. And while he was looking at Betelgeuse, Rigel
and Saiph ... it happened.
  
 
  The room was totally dark, and it seemed to be furnished with a
collection of hard, sharp, sticky and knobby objects of various shapes
and a number of inconvenient sizes. McCray tripped over something
that rocked under his feet and fell against something that clattered
hollowly. He picked himself up, braced against something that smelled
dangerously of halogen compounds, and scratched his shoulder, right
through his space-tunic, against something that vibrated as he touched
it.
  
 
  McCray had no idea where he was, and no way to find out.
  
 
  Not only was he in darkness, but in utter silence as well. No. Not
quite utter silence.
  
 
  Somewhere, just at the threshold of his senses, there was something
like a voice. He could not quite hear it, but it was there. He sat as
still as he could, listening; it remained elusive.
  
 
  Probably it was only an illusion.
  
 
  But the room itself was hard fact. McCray swore violently and out loud.
  
 
  It was crazy and impossible. There simply was no way for him to get
from a warm, bright navigator's cubicle on
   
   Starship Jodrell Bank
   
  to
this damned, dark, dismal hole of a place where everything was out to
hurt him and nothing explained what was going on. He cried aloud in
exasperation: "If I could only
   
   see
   
  !"
  
 
  He tripped and fell against something that was soft, slimy and, like
baker's dough, not at all resilient.
  
 
  A flickering halo of pinkish light appeared. He sat up, startled. He
was looking at something that resembled a suit of medieval armor.
  
