As if in response, the flivver vibrated. Grampa looked querulously
toward the airlock. "Flivver shouldn't shake like that. Not with the
polarizer turned on."
  
 
  The airlock door swung inward. Through the oval doorway walked Fred,
followed closely by Junior. They were sweat-stained and weary,
scintillation counters dangling heavily from their belts.
  
 
  "Any luck?" Reba asked brightly.
  
 
  "Do we look it?" Junior grumbled.
  
 
  "Where's Joyce?" asked Fred. "Might as well get everybody in on this at
once. Joyce!"
  
 
  The door to his wife's room opened instantly. Behind it, Joyce was
regal and slim. The pose was spoiled immediately by her avid question:
"Any uranium? Radium? Thorium?"
  
 
  "No," Fred said slowly, "and no other heavy metals, either. There's a
few low-grade iron deposits and that's it."
  
 
  "Then what makes this planet so heavy?" Reba asked.
  
 
  Junior shrugged helplessly and collapsed into a chair. "Your guess is
as good as anybody's."
  
 
  "Then we've wasted another week on a worthless rock," Joyce complained.
She turned savagely on Fred. "This was going to make us all filthy
rich. We were going to find radioactives and retire to Earth like
billionaires. And all we've done is spent a year of our lives in this
cramped old flivver—and we don't have many of them to spare!" She
glared venomously at Grampa.
  
 
  "We've still got Fweepland," Four said solemnly.
  
 
  "Fweepland?" Reba repeated.
  
 
  "This planet. It's not big, but it's fertile and it's harmless. As
real estate, it's worth almost as much as if it were solid uranium."
  
 
  "A good thing, too," Junior said glumly, "because this looks like the
end of our search. Short of a miracle, we'll spend the rest of our
lives right here—involuntary colonists."
  
 
  Joyce spun on him. "You're joking!" she screeched.
  
 
  "I wish I were," Junior said. "But the polarizer won't work. Either
it's broken or there's something about the gravity around here that
just won't polarize."
  
 
  "It's these '23 models," Grampa put in disgustedly. "They never were
any good."
  
