 
  THE AVENGER
  
 
  By STUART FLEMING
  
 
  Karson was creating a superman to fight the weird
   
  super-monsters who had invaded Earth. But he was
   
  forgetting one tiny thing—like calls to like.
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Planet Stories Spring 1944.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
 
   Peter Karson was dead. He had been dead for some time now, but
the dark blood was still oozing from the crushed ruin of his face,
trickling down into his sodden sleeve, and falling, drop by slow drop,
from his fingertips. His head was tilted over the back of the chair at
a queer, unnatural angle, so that the light made deep pools of shadow
where his eyes had been.
   
 
 
 
   There was no sound in the room except for the small splashing the
blood made as it dropped into the sticky pool on the floor. The great
banks of machinery around the walls were silent. I knew that they would
never come to life again.
   
 
 
 
   I rose and walked over to the window. Outside, the stars were as
before: tiny, myriad points of light, infinitely far away. They had not
changed, and yet they were suddenly no longer friendly. They were cold
and alien. It was I who had changed: something inside me was dead, like
the machinery, and like Peter.
   
 
 
 
   It was a kind of indefinable emptiness. I do not think it was what
Peter called an emotion; and yet it had nothing to do with logic,
either. It was just an emptiness—a void that could not be filled by
eating or drinking.
   
 
 
 
   It was not a longing. I had no desire that things should be otherwise
than they were. I did not even wish that Peter were not dead, for
reason had told me that he had to die. That was the end of it.
   
 
 
 
   But the void was still there, unexplainable and impossible to ignore.
For the first time in all my life I had found a problem that I could
not solve. Strange, disturbing sensations stirred and whispered within
me, nagging, gnawing. And suddenly—something moved on the skin of my
cheek. I raised a hand to it, slowly.
   
 
 
 
   A tear was trickling down my cheek.
   
 
