He was trembling violently. He ran the last few steps, stumbled into
the airlock, and pressed the stud that would seal the door behind him.
   
   We'll come back....
   
  He heard the massive disk sink home, closing him
off. Then he sank down on the floor of the airlock and put his head in
shaking hands.
  
 
  After a while he roused himself, closed the inner door of the lock
behind him, and walked down the long corridor into the control chamber.
The shining banks of keys were there, waiting for his touch; he slumped
down before them and listlessly closed the contact of the visiplate.
  
 
  He swung its field slowly, scanning for the last time the bare walls
of the underground chamber, making sure that all the spectators had
retired out of the way of the blast. Then his clawed fingers poised
over the keys, hovered a moment, and thrust down.
  
 
  Acceleration pressed him deep into his chair. In the visiplate, the
heavy doors that closed the tunnel above him flashed back, one by one.
The energy-charged screen flickered off to let him pass, and closed
smoothly behind him. The last doors, cleverly camouflaged, slipped back
into place and then dwindled in the distance. It was done.
  
 
  He flashed on out, past the moon, past Mars, over the asteroid belt.
The days merged into weeks, then months, and finally, far out,
   
   The
Avenger
   
  curved into an orbit and held it. The great motors died, and
the silence pressed in about him.
  
 
  Already he could feel the invisible rays burning resistlessly through
his flesh as if it were water, shifting the cells of his body, working
its slow, monstrous alchemy upon him. Peter waited until the changes
were unmistakably evident in his skin and hair, and then he smashed all
the mirrors in the ship.
  
 
  The embryos were pulsing with unnatural life, even in the suspended
animation of their crystal cells. One by one he allowed them to
mature, and after weeks or years destroyed the monstrosities that came
from the incubators. Time went by, meaninglessly. He ate when he was
hungry, slept when his driving purpose let him, and worked unceasingly,
searching for the million-to-one chance.
  
 
  He stared sometimes through changed eyes at the tiny blue star that was
Earth, wondering if the race he had left behind still burrowed in its
worm-tunnels, digging deeper and deeper away from the sunlight. But
after a time he ceased even to wonder.
  
 
  And one changeling-child he did not destroy. He fed knowledge to its
eager brain, and watched it through the swift years, with a dawning
hope....
  
