"Save the protests, Fith. You have some explaining to do. And I don't
think your story will be good enough."
  
 
  "It is for you to explain! This person who was beaten—"
  
 
  "Not beaten. Just rapped a few times to loosen his memory."
  
 
  "Then you admit—"
  
 
  "It worked, too. He remembered lots of things, once he put his mind to
it."
  
 
  Fith rose; Shluh followed suit.
  
 
  "I shall ask for your immediate recall, Mr. Consul. Were it not for
your diplomatic immunity, I should do more—"
  
 
  "Why did the government fall, Fith? It was just after the task force
paid its visit, and before the arrival of the first Terrestrial
diplomatic mission."
  
 
  "This is an internal matter!" Fith cried, in his faint Groacian voice.
"The new regime has shown itself most amiable to you Terrestrials. It
has outdone itself—"
  
 
  "—to keep the Terrestrial consul and his staff in the dark," Retief
said. "And the same goes for the few terrestrial businessmen you've
visaed. This continual round of culture; no social contacts outside the
diplomatic circle; no travel permits to visit out-lying districts, or
your satellite—"
  
 
  "Enough!" Fith's mandibles quivered in distress. "I can talk no more of
this matter—"
  
 
  "You'll talk to me, or there'll be a task force here in five days to do
the talking," Retief said.
  
 
  "You can't!" Miss Meuhl gasped.
  
 
  Retief turned a steady look on Miss Meuhl. She closed her mouth. The
Groaci sat down.
  
 
  "Answer me this one," Retief said, looking at Shluh. "A few years
back—about nine, I think—there was a little parade held here. Some
curious looking creatures were captured. After being securely caged,
they were exhibited to the gentle Groaci public. Hauled through the
streets. Very educational, no doubt. A highly cultural show.
  
 
  "Funny thing about these animals. They wore clothes. They seemed to
communicate with each other. Altogether it was a very amusing exhibit.
  
 
  "Tell me, Shluh, what happened to those six Terrestrials after the
parade was over?"
  
