Once seated, the AEC man said "I'll get right to the point. You may
find this troublesome, gentlemen, but your government intends to
confiscate all of the devices using your so-called Expendable field,
and forever bar their manufacture in this country or their importation."
  
 
  "You stinking G-men aren't getting away with this," Carmen said
ingratiatingly. "Ever hear of the Mafia?"
  
 
  "Not much," the young man admitted earnestly, "since the FBI finished
with its deportations a few years back."
  
 
  I cleared my throat. "I must admit that the destruction of a
multi-billion business is disconcerting before lunch. May we ask why
you took this step?"
  
 
  The agent inserted a finger between his collar and tie. "Have you
noticed how unseasonably warm it is?"
  
 
  "I wondered if you had. You're going to have heat prostration if you
keep that suit coat on five minutes more."
  
 
  The young man collapsed back in his chair, loosening the top button of
his ivy league jacket, looking from my naked hide to the gossomer scrap
of sport shirt Carmen wore. "We have to dress inconspicuously in the
service," he panted weakly.
  
 
  I nodded understandingly. "What does the heat have to do with the
outlawing of the Expendables?"
  
 
  "At first we thought there might be some truth in the folk nonsense
that nuclear tests had something to do with raising the mean
temperature of the world," the AEC man said. "But our scientists
quickly found they weren't to blame."
  
 
  "Clever of them."
  
 
  "Yes, they saw that the widespread use of your machines was responsible
for the higher temperature. Your device violates the law of
conservation of energy,
   
   seemingly
   
  . It
   
   seemingly
   
  destroys matter
without creating energy. Actually—"
  
 
  He paused dramatically.
  
 
  "Actually, your device added the energy it created in destroying matter
to the energy potential of the planet in the form of
   
   heat
   
  . You see
what that means? If your devices continue in operation, the mean
temperature of Earth will rise to the point where we burst into flame.
They must be outlawed!"
  
 
  "I agree," I said reluctantly.
  
 
  Tony Carmen spoke up. "No, you don't, Professor. We don't agree to
that."
  
 
  I waved his protests aside.
  
 
  "I
   
   would
   
  agree," I said, "except that it wouldn't work. Explain the
danger to the public, let them feel the heat rise themselves, and they
will hoard Expendables against seizure and continue to use them, until
we do burst into flame, as you put it so religiously."
  
 
  "Why?" the young man demanded.
  
 
  "Because Expendables are convenient. There is a ban on frivolous use
of water due to the dire need. But the police still have to go stop
people from watering lawns, and I suspect not a few swimming pools are
being filled on the sly. Water is somebody else's worry. So will be
generating enough heat to turn Eden into Hell."
  
 
  "Mass psychology isn't my strongest point," the young man said
worriedly. "But I suspect you may be right. Then—we'll be damned?"
  
 
  "No, not necessarily," I told him comfortingly. "All we have to do is
   
   use up
   
  the excess energy with engines of a specific design."
  
 
  "But can we design those engines in time?" the young man wondered with
uncharacteristic gloom.
  
 
  "Certainly," I said, practising the power of positive thinking. "Now
that your world-wide testing laboratories have confirmed a vague fear
of mine, I can easily reverse the field of the Expendable device and
create a rather low-efficiency engine that consumes the excess energy
in our planetary potential."
  
