Peter forced himself forward another step. Little Harry Kanin,
Lorelei's assistant, was crumpled in a corner, half supported by the
broad base of an X-ray chamber. His face was flaccid and bloated. His
glazed eyes, impassive yet somehow pleading, stared at nothingness
straight ahead of him.
  
 
  The Invaders ignored Peter, staring expressionlessly down at Kanin.
In a moment Peter realized what they were doing to him. He stood,
paralyzed with horror, and watched it happen.
  
 
  The little man's body was sagging, ever so slowly, as if he were
relaxing tiredly. His torso was telescoping, bit by bit; his spread
legs grew wider and more shapeless, his cheeks caved in and his skull
grew gradually flatter.
  
 
  When it was over, the thing that had been Kanin was a limp, boneless
puddle of flesh. Peter could not look at it.
  
 
  There was a scream in his throat that would not come out. He was beyond
fear, beyond agony. He turned to the still-hovering monsters and said
in a terrible voice, "Why? Why?"
  
 
  The nearest being turned slowly to regard him. Its lips did not move,
but there was a tiny sound in Peter's brain, a thin, dry whispering.
  
 
  The scream was welling up. He fought it down and listened.
  
 
  "
   
   Wurnkomellilonasendiktolsasangkanmiamiamimami....
   
  "
  
 
  The face was staring directly into his, the bulging eyes hypnotic. The
ears were small, no more than excresences of skin. The narrow lips
seemed sealed together; a thin, slimy ichor drooled from them. There
were lines in the face, but they were lines of age, not emotion. Only
the eyes were alive.
  
 
  "
   
   ... raswilopreatadvuonistuwurncchtusanlgkelglawwalinom....
   
  "
  
 
  "I can't understand," he cried wildly. "What do you want?"
  
 
  "
   
   ... morofelcovisyanmamiwurlectaunntous.
   
  "
  
 
  He heard a faint sound behind him, and whirled. It was the first
time he had realized that Lorelei had followed him. She stood there,
swaying, very pale, looking at the red Invaders. Her eyes swiveled
slowly....
  
 
  "
   
   Opreniktoulestritifenrelngetnaktwiltoctpre.
   
  "
  
 
  His voice was hoarse. "Don't look! Don't—Go back!" The horrible,
mindless noise in his throat was almost beyond his power to repress.
His insides writhed to thrust it out.
  
 
  She didn't see him. Her eyes glazed, and she dropped limply to the
floor.
  
 
  The scream came out then. Before he knew, even, that he could hold
it back no longer, his mouth was wide open, his muscles tensed, his
fingernails slicing his palms. It echoed with unbelievable volume in
the room. It was a scream to split eardrums; a scream to wake the dead.
  
