The ceaseless voyaging began again.
   
   The Interregnum
   
  voyaged to every
ocean and every sea. Some were blue and some green and some dun. After
a while, Martin couldn't tell one from another. Cousin after cousin
came to watch over him and eventually they were as hard for him to tell
apart as the different oceans.
  
 
 
 
  All the cousins were young, for, though they came at different times in
his life, they had all started out from the same time in theirs. Only
the young ones had been included in the venture; they did not trust
their elders.
  
 
  As the years went by, Martin began to lose even his detached interest
in the land and its doings. Although the yacht frequently touched port
for fuel or supplies—it was more economical to purchase them in that
era than to have them shipped from the future—he seldom went ashore,
and then only at the urging of a newly assigned cousin anxious to see
the sights. Most of the time Martin spent in watching the sea—and
sometimes he painted it. There seemed to be a depth to his seascapes
that his other work lacked.
  
 
  When he was pressed by the current cousin to make a land visit
somewhere, he decided to exhibit a few of his sea paintings. That way,
he could fool himself into thinking that there was some purpose to this
journey. He'd come to believe that perhaps what his life lacked was
purpose, and for a while he kept looking for meaning everywhere, to the
cousin's utter disgust.
  
 
  "Eat, drink and be merry, or whatever you Romans say when you do as you
do," the cousin—who was rather woolly in history; the descendants were
scraping bottom now—advised.
  
 
  Martin showed his work in Italy, so that the cousin could be
disillusioned by the current crop of Romans. He found that neither
purpose nor malice was enough; he was still immeasurably bored.
However, a museum bought two of the paintings. Martin thought of Ives
and felt an uncomfortable pang of a sensation he could no longer
understand.
  
 
  "Where do you suppose Conrad has been all this time?" Martin idly asked
the current cousin—who was passing as his nephew by now.
  
 
  The young man jumped, then glanced around him uncomfortably. "Conrad's
a very shrewd fellow," he whispered. "He's biding his time—waiting
until we're off guard. And then—pow!—he'll attack!"
  
 
  "Oh, I see," Martin said.
  
 
  He had often fancied that Conrad would prove to be the most stimulating
member of the whole generation. But it seemed unlikely that he would
ever have a chance for a conversation with the young man. More than one
conversation, anyhow.
  
 
  "When he does show up, I'll protect you," the cousin vowed, touching
his ray gun. "You haven't a thing to worry about."
  
 
  Martin smiled with all the charm he'd had nothing to do but acquire. "I
have every confidence in you," he told his descendant. He himself had
given up carrying a gun long ago.
  
 
  There was a war in the Northern Hemisphere and so
   
   The Interregnum
   
  voyaged to southern waters. There was a war in the south and they hid
out in the Arctic. All the nations became too drained of power—fuel
and man and will—to fight, so there was a sterile peace for a long
time.
   
   The Interregnum
   
  roamed the seas restlessly, with her load of
passengers from the future, plus one bored and aging contemporary. She
bore big guns now, because of the ever-present danger of pirates.
  
