"All right, Mr. Councillor," Retief said. "I'll play along; what's in
the folder?"
  
 
  Magnan spread his fingers, folded one down.
  
 
  "First," he said. "The Soetti War Plan—in detail. We were fortunate
enough to make contact with a defector from a party of renegade
Terrestrials who've been advising the Soetti." He folded another
finger. "Next, a battle plan for the Jorgensen's people, worked out by
the Theory group." He wrestled a third finger down. "Lastly; an Utter
Top Secret schematic for conversion of a standard anti-acceleration
field into a potent weapon—a development our systems people have been
holding in reserve for just such a situation."
  
 
  "Is that all?" Retief said. "You've still got two fingers sticking up."
  
 
  Magnan looked at the fingers and put them away.
  
 
  "This is no occasion for flippancy, Retief. In the wrong hands, this
information could be catastrophic. You'll memorize it before you leave
this building."
  
 
  "I'll carry it, sealed," Retief said. "That way nobody can sweat it out
of me."
  
 
  Magnan started to shake his head.
  
 
  "Well," he said. "If it's trapped for destruction, I suppose—"
  
 
  "I've heard of these Jorgensen's Worlds," Retief said. "I remember an
agent, a big blond fellow, very quick on the uptake. A wizard with
cards and dice. Never played for money, though."
  
 
  "Umm," Magnan said. "Don't make the error of personalizing this
situation, Retief. Overall policy calls for a defense of these
backwater worlds. Otherwise the Corps would allow history to follow its
natural course, as always."
  
 
  "When does this attack happen?"
  
 
  "Less than four weeks."
  
 
  "That doesn't leave me much time."
  
 
  "I have your itinerary here. Your accommodations are clear as far as
Aldo Cerise. You'll have to rely on your ingenuity to get you the rest
of the way."
  
 
  "That's a pretty rough trip, Mr. Councillor. Suppose I don't make it?"
  
 
  Magnan looked sour. "Someone at a policy-making level has chosen to put
all our eggs in one basket, Retief. I hope their confidence in you is
not misplaced."
  
 
  "This antiac conversion; how long does it take?"
  
 
  "A skilled electronics crew can do the job in a matter of minutes. The
Jorgensens can handle it very nicely; every other man is a mechanic of
some sort."
  
 
  Retief opened the envelope Magnan handed him and looked at the tickets
inside.
  
 
  "Less than four hours to departure time," he said. "I'd better not
start any long books."
  
 
  "You'd better waste no time getting over to Indoctrination," Magnan
said.
  
 
  Retief stood up. "If I hurry, maybe I can catch the cartoon."
  
 
  "The allusion escapes me," Magnan said coldly. "And one last word. The
Soetti are patrolling the trade lanes into Jorgensen's Worlds; don't
get yourself interned."
  
 
  "I'll tell you what," Retief said soberly. "In a pinch, I'll mention
your name."
  
 
  "You'll be traveling with Class X credentials," Magnan snapped. "There
must be nothing to connect you with the Corps."
  
 
  "They'll never guess," Retief said. "I'll pose as a gentleman."
  
 
  "You'd better be getting started," Magnan said, shuffling papers.
  
 
  "You're right," Retief said. "If I work at it, I might manage a
snootful by takeoff." He went to the door. "No objection to my checking
out a needler, is there?"
  
 
  Magnan looked up. "I suppose not. What do you want with it?"
  
 
  "Just a feeling I've got."
  
 
  "Please yourself."
  
 
  "Some day," Retief said, "I may take you up on that."
  
 
 
  II
  
 
  Retief put down the heavy travel-battered suitcase and leaned on the
counter, studying the schedules chalked on the board under the legend
"ALDO CERISE—INTERPLANETARY." A thin clerk in a faded sequined blouse
and a plastic snakeskin cummerbund groomed his fingernails, watching
Retief from the corner of his eye.
  
 
  Retief glanced at him.
  
 
  The clerk nipped off a ragged corner with rabbitlike front teeth and
spat it on the floor.
  
 
  "Was there something?" he said.
  
 
  "Two twenty-eight, due out today for the Jorgensen group," Retief said.
"Is it on schedule?"
  
 
  The clerk sampled the inside of his right cheek, eyed Retief. "Filled
up. Try again in a couple of weeks."
  
 
  "What time does it leave?"
  
 
  "I don't think—"
  
 
  "Let's stick to facts," Retief said. "Don't try to think. What time is
it due out?"
  
 
  The clerk smiled pityingly. "It's my lunch hour," he said. "I'll be
open in an hour." He held up a thumb nail, frowned at it.
  
 
  "If I have to come around this counter," Retief said, "I'll feed that
thumb to you the hard way."
  
 
  The clerk looked up and opened his mouth. Then he caught Retief's eye,
closed his mouth and swallowed.
  
 
  "Like it says there," he said, jerking a thumb at the board. "Lifts in
an hour. But you won't be on it," he added.
  
 
  Retief looked at him.
  
 
  "Some ... ah ... VIP's required accommodation," he said. He hooked
a finger inside the sequined collar. "All tourist reservations were
canceled. You'll have to try to get space on the Four-Planet Line ship
next—"
  
 
  "Which gate?" Retief said.
  
 
  "For ... ah...?"
  
 
  "For the two twenty-eight for Jorgensen's Worlds," Retief said.
  
 
  "Well," the clerk said. "Gate 19," he added quickly. "But—"
  
 
  Retief picked up his suitcase and walked away toward the glare sign
reading
   
   To Gates 16-30
   
  .
  
 
  "Another smart alec," the clerk said behind him.
  
