Unfortunately, the fees that he'd received in the past had not enabled
him both to live well and to save, and now that his fortunes had been
so drastically reduced, he seemed in a fair way of starving to death.
It gave him a gentle, moody pleasure to envisage his own funeral,
although, at the same time, he realized that Bbulas would probably have
to arrange some sort of pension for him; he could not expect Skkiru's
patriotism to extend to abnormal limits. A man might be willing to die
for his planet in many ways—but wantonly starving to death as the
result of a primitive affectation was hardly one of them.
  
 
  All the same, Skkiru reflected as he watched the visitors being led off
to the native hut prepared for them, how ignominious it would be for
one of the brightest young architects on the planet to have to subsist
miserably on the dole just because the world had gone aboveground. The
capital had risen to the surface and the other cities would soon follow
suit. Meanwhile, a careful system of tabus had been designed to keep
the Earthmen from discovering the existence of those other cities.
  
 
  He could, of course, emigrate to another part of the planet, to one of
them, and stave off his doom for a while—but that would not be playing
the game. Besides, in such a case, he wouldn't be able to see Larhgan.
  
 
  As if all this weren't bad enough, he had been done an injury which
struck directly at his professional pride. He hadn't even been allowed
to help in planning the huts. Bbulas and some workmen had done all that
themselves with the aid of some antique blueprints that had been put
out centuries before by a Terrestrial magazine and had been acquired
from a rare tape-and-book dealer on Gambrell, for, Skkiru thought, far
too high a price. He could have designed them himself just as badly and
much more cheaply.
  
 
  It wasn't that Skkiru didn't understand well enough that Snaddra had
been forced into making such a drastic change in its way of life.
What resources it once possessed had been depleted and—aside from
minerals—they had never been very extensive to begin with. All
life-forms on the planet were on the point of extinction, save fish and
rice—the only vegetable that would grow on Snaddra, and originally a
Terran import at that. So food and fiber had to be brought from the
other planets, at fabulous expense, for Snaddra was not on any of
the direct trade routes and was too unattractive to lure the tourist
business.
  
 
  Something definitely had to be done, if it were not to decay
altogether. And that was where the Planetary Dilettante came in.
  
