Until then, I'd managed somehow to keep the day's minor disasters from
ruining my mood. Even while eating that horrible egg—I couldn't very
well throw it away, broken yolk or no; it was my breakfast allotment
and I was hungry—and while hurriedly jury-rigging drapery across that
gaspingly transparent window—one hundred and fifty-three stories
straight down to slag—I kept going over and over my prepared proposal
speeches, trying to select the most effective one.
  
 
  I had a Whimsical Approach: "Honey, I see there's a nice little
Non-P apartment available up on one seventy-three." And I had a
Romantic Approach: "Darling, I can't live without you at the moment.
Temporarily, I'm madly in love with you. I want to share my life
with you for a while. Will you be provisionally mine?" I even had a
Straightforward Approach: "Linda, I'm going to be needing a wife for at
least a year or two, and I can't think of anyone I would rather spend
that time with than you."
  
 
  Actually, though I wouldn't even have admitted this to Linda, much less
to anyone else, I loved her in more than a Non-P way. But even if we
both had been genetically desirable (neither of us were) I knew that
Linda relished her freedom and independence too much to ever contract
for any kind of marriage other than Non-P—Non-Permanent, No Progeny.
  
 
  So I rehearsed my various approaches, realizing that when the time
came I would probably be so tongue-tied I'd be capable of no more
than a blurted, "Will you marry me?" and I struggled with zippers and
malfunctioning air-cons, and I managed somehow to leave the apartment
at five minutes to ten.
  
 
  Linda lived down on the hundred fortieth floor, thirteen stories away.
It never took more than two or three minutes to get to her place, so I
was giving myself plenty of time.
  
 
  But then the elevator didn't come.
  
 
  I pushed the button, waited, and nothing happened. I couldn't
understand it.
  
 
  The elevator had always arrived before, within thirty seconds of
the button being pushed. This was a local stop, with an elevator
that traveled between the hundred thirty-third floor and the hundred
sixty-seventh floor, where it was possible to make connections for
either the next local or for the express. So it couldn't be more than
twenty stories away. And this was a non-rush hour.
  
 
  I pushed the button again, and then I waited some more. I looked at my
watch and it was three minutes to ten. Two minutes, and no elevator! If
it didn't arrive this instant, this second, I would be late.
  
 
  It didn't arrive.
  
 
  I vacillated, not knowing what to do next. Stay, hoping the elevator
would come after all? Or hurry back to the apartment and call Linda, to
give her advance warning that I would be late?
  
 
  Ten more seconds, and still no elevator. I chose the second
alternative, raced back down the hall, and thumbed my way into my
apartment. I dialed Linda's number, and the screen lit up with white
letters on black: PRIVACY DISCONNECTION.
  
 
  Of course! Linda expected me at any moment. And she knew what I wanted
to say to her, so quite naturally she had disconnected the phone, to
keep us from being interrupted.
  
 
  Frantic, I dashed from the apartment again, back down the hall to the
elevator, and leaned on that blasted button with all my weight. Even if
the elevator should arrive right now, I would still be almost a minute
late.
  
 
  No matter. It didn't arrive.
  
 
  I would have been in a howling rage anyway, but this impossibility
piled on top of all the other annoyances and breakdowns of the day
was just too much. I went into a frenzy, and kicked the elevator door
three times before I realized I was hurting myself more than I was
hurting the door. I limped back to the apartment, fuming, slammed the
door behind me, grabbed the phone book and looked up the number of
the Transit Staff. I dialed, prepared to register a complaint so loud
they'd be able to hear me in sub-basement three.
  
 
  I got some more letters that spelled: BUSY.
  
