 
  The Sense of Wonder
  
 
  By MILTON LESSER
  
 
  Illustrated by HARRY ROSENBAUM
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Galaxy Science Fiction September 1951.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  When nobody aboard ship remembers where it's
   
  going, how can they tell when it has arrived?
  
 
 
  Every day for a week now, Rikud had come to the viewport to watch
the great changeless sweep of space. He could not quite explain the
feelings within him; they were so alien, so unnatural. But ever since
the engines somewhere in the rear of the world had changed their tone,
from the steady whining Rikud had heard all twenty-five years of his
life, to the sullen roar that came to his ears now, the feelings had
grown.
  
 
  If anyone else had noticed the change, he failed to mention it. This
disturbed Rikud, although he could not tell why. And, because he had
realized this odd difference in himself, he kept it locked up inside
him.
  
 
  Today, space looked somehow different. The stars—it was a meaningless
concept to Rikud, but that was what everyone called the bright
pinpoints of light on the black backdrop in the viewport—were not
apparent in the speckled profusion Rikud had always known. Instead,
there was more of the blackness, and one very bright star set apart
by itself in the middle of the viewport.
  
 
  If he had understood the term, Rikud would have told himself this was
odd. His head ached with the half-born thought. It was—it was—what
was it?
  
 
  Someone was clomping up the companionway behind Rikud. He turned and
greeted gray-haired old Chuls.
  
 
  "In five more years," the older man chided, "you'll be ready to sire
children. And all you can do in the meantime is gaze out at the stars."
  
 
  Rikud knew he should be exercising now, or bathing in the rays of the
health-lamps. It had never occurred to him that he didn't feel like it;
he just didn't, without comprehending.
  
 
  Chuls' reminder fostered uneasiness. Often Rikud had dreamed of the
time he would be thirty and a father. Whom would the Calculator select
as his mate? The first time this idea had occurred to him, Rikud
ignored it. But it came again, and each time it left him with a feeling
he could not explain. Why should he think thoughts that no other man
had? Why should he think he was thinking such thoughts, when it always
embroiled him in a hopeless, infinite confusion that left him with a
headache?
  
 
  Chuls said, "It is time for my bath in the health-rays. I saw you here
and knew it was your time, too...."
  
 
  His voice trailed off. Rikud knew that something which he could not
explain had entered the elder man's head for a moment, but it had
departed almost before Chuls knew of its existence.
  
 
  "I'll go with you," Rikud told him.
  
