 
  THE LORELEI DEATH
  
 
  by NELSON S. BOND
  
 
  Far out in limitless Space she plied
   
  her deadly trade ... a Lorelei of the
   
  void, beckoning spacemen to death and
   
  destruction with her beautiful siren lure.
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Planet Stories Winter 1941.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  Chip Warren stood before an oblong of glass set into one wall of
the spaceship
   
   Chickadee II
   
  , stared at what he saw reflected
therefrom—and frowned. He didn't like it. Not a bit! It was too—too—
  
 
  He turned away angrily, ripped the offending article from about his
neck, and chose another necktie from the rack. This one was brighter,
gaudier, much more in keeping with the gaiety of his mood. He emitted a
grunt of satisfaction, spun from the mirror to face his two companions
triumphantly.
  
 
  "There! How do you like
   
   that
   
  ?"
  
 
  Syd Palmer, short and chubby, tow-headed and liquid-blue of eye, always
languid save when engaged in the solution of some engineering problem
concerned with the space vessel he mothered like a brooding hen, moaned
insultingly and forced a shudder.
  
 
  "Sunspots! Novae! Flying comets! And he wears 'em around his neck!"
  
 
  "You," Chip told him serenely, "have no appreciation of beauty. What do
   
   you
   
  think of it, Padre?"
  
 
  "Salvation" Smith, a tall, gangling scarecrow garbed in rusty black,
a lean-jawed, hawkeyed man with tumbled locks of silver framing his
weathered cheeks like a halo, concealed his grin poorly. "Well,
my boy," he admitted, "there is
   
   some
   
  Biblical precedent for
your—ahem!—clamorous raiment. 'So Joseph made for himself a coat
which was of many colors—'"
  
 
  "Both of you," declared Chip, "give me a pain in the pants!
Stick-in-the-muds! Here we are in port for the first time in months,
cargo-bins loaded to the gunwales with enough ekalastron to make us
rich for life—and you sit here like a pair of stuffed owls!
  
 
  "Well, not me! I'm going to take a night off, throw myself a party the
likes of which was never seen around these parts. Put a candle in the
window, chilluns, 'cause li'l' Chip won't be home till the wee, sma'
hours!"
  
 
  Syd chuckled.
  
 
  "O.Q., big shot. But don't get too cozy with any of those joy-joint
entertainers. Remember what happened to poor old Dougal MacNeer!"
  
 
  Salvation said soberly, "Syd's just fooling, my boy. But I
   
   would
   
  be
careful if I were you. We're in the Belt, you know. The forces of law
and order do not always govern these wild outposts of civilization as
well as might be hoped. The planetoids are dens of iniquity, violent
and unheeding the words of Him who rules all—"
  
 
  The old man's lips etched a straight line, reminding Chip that
Salvation Smith was not one of those milk-and-water missionaries who
espoused the principle of "turning the other cheek" to evildoers.
Salvation was not the ordained emissary of any church. A devoutly
religious man with the heart of an adventurer, he had taken upon
himself the mission of carrying to outland tribes the story of the God
he worshipped.
  
 
  That his God was the fierce Yahveh of the Old Testament, a God of
anger and retribution, was made evident by the methods Salvation
sometimes employed in winning his converts. For not only was Salvation
acknowledged the most pious man in space; he was also conceded to be
the best hand with a gun!
  
 
  Now Chip gave quiet answer. "I know, Padre: I'll be careful. Well,
Syd—sure you won't change your mind and come along?"
  
 
  "No can do, chum. The spaceport repair crew's still smearing this
jalopy with ek. Got to stay and watch 'em."
  
 
  "O.Q. I'm off alone, then. See you later!"
  
 
  And, whistling, Chip Warren stepped through the lock of the
   
   Chickadee
   
  onto the soil of the asteroid Danae.
  
