  THE LOST TRIBES OF VENUS
  
 
  By ERIK FENNEL
  
 
 
   On mist-shrouded Venus, where hostile
    
   swamp meets hostile sea ... there did
    
   Barry Barr—Earthman transmuted—swap
    
   his Terran heritage for the deep dark
    
   waters of Tana; for the strangely
    
   beautiful Xintel of the blue-brown skin.
   
 
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Planet Stories May 1954.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  Evil luck brought the meteorite to those particular space-time
coordinates as Number Four rode the downhill spiral toward Venus. The
football-sized chunk of nickel-iron and rock overtook the ship at a
relative speed of only a few hundred miles per hour and passed close
enough to come within the tremendous pseudo-gravatic fields of the
idling drivers.
  
 
  It swerved into a paraboloid course, following the flux lines, and was
dragged directly against one of the three projecting nozzles. Energy
of motion was converted to heat and a few meteoric fragments fused
themselves to the nonmetallic tube casing.
  
 
  In the jet room the positronic line accelerator for that particular
driver fouled under the intolerable overload, and the backsurge sent
searing heat and deadly radiation blasting through the compartment
before the main circuit breakers could clack open.
  
 
  The bellow of the alarm horn brought Barry Barr fully awake, shattering
a delightfully intimate dream of the dark haired girl he hoped to see
again soon in Venus Colony. As he unbuckled his bunk straps and started
aft at a floating, bounding run his weightlessness told him instantly
that Number Four was in free fall with dead drivers.
  
 
  Red warning lights gleamed wickedly above the safety-locked jet
room door, and Nick Podtiaguine, the air machines specialist, was
manipulating the emergency controls with Captain Reno at his elbow. One
by one the crew crowded into the corridor and watched in tense silence.
  
 
  The automatic lock clicked off as the jet room returned to habitable
conditions, and at Captain Reno's gesture two men swung the door open.
Quickly the commander entered the blasted jet room. Barry Barr was
close behind him.
  
 
  Robson Hind, jet chief of Four and electronics expert for Venus Colony,
hung back until others had gone in first. His handsome, heavy face had
lost its usual ruddiness.
  
 
  Captain Reno surveyed the havoc. Young Ryan's body floated eerily in
the zero gravity, charred into instant death by the back-blast. The
line accelerator was a shapeless ruin, but except for broken meter
glasses and scorched control handles other mechanical damage appeared
minor. They had been lucky.
  
 
  "Turnover starts in six hours twelve minutes," the captain said
meaningfully.
  
 
  Robson Hind cleared his throat. "We can change accelerators in two
hours," he declared. With a quick reassumption of authority he began to
order his crew into action.
  
 
  It took nearer three hours than two to change accelerators despite
Hind's shouted orders.
  
 
  At last the job was completed. Hind made a final check, floated over to
the control panel and started the fuel feed. With a confident smile he
threw in the accelerator switch.
  
 
  The meter needles climbed, soared past the red lines without pausing,
and just in time to prevent a second blowback, Hind cut the power.
  
 
  "
   
   There's metal in the field!
   
  " His voice was high and unsteady.
  
