Strange? The object rose a quarter of a mile above us, a huge, curving
hulk of smooth metal. It was featureless and yet conveyed a sense
of
   
   alienness
   
  . It was alien and yet it wasn't a natural formation.
Something had made the thing, whatever it was. But was it strange that
it hadn't been noticed before? Men had lived on the Moon for over a
year, but the Moon was vast and the
   
   Mare Serenitatis
   
  covered three
hundred and forty thousand square miles.
  
 
  "What is it?" Marie asked breathlessly.
  
 
  Her husband grunted his bafflement. "Who knows? But see how it curves?
If it's a perfect sphere, it must be at least two miles in diameter!"
  
 
  "If it's a perfect sphere," Miller suggested, "most of it must be
beneath the Moon's surface."
  
 
  "Maybe it isn't a sphere," my wife said. "Maybe this is all of it."
  
 
  "Let's call Lunar City and tell the authorities about it." I reached
for the radio controls on my suit.
  
 
  Kane grabbed my arm. "No. Let's find out whatever we can by ourselves.
If we tell the authorities, they'll order us to leave it alone. If we
discover something really important, we'll be famous!"
  
 
  I lowered my arm. His outburst seemed faintly childish to me. And yet
it carried a good measure of common sense. If we discovered proof of
an alien race, we would indeed be famous. The more we discovered for
ourselves, the more famous we'd be. Fame was practically a synonym for
prestige and wealth.
  
 
  "All right," I conceded.
  
 
  Miller stepped forward, moving slowly in the bulk of his spacesuit.
Deliberately, he removed a small torch from his side and pressed the
brilliant flame against the metal.
  
 
  A few minutes later, the elderly mineralogist gave his opinion: "It's
steel ... made thousands of years ago."
  
 
  Someone gasped over the intercom, "Thousands of years! But wouldn't it
be in worse shape than this if it was that old?"
  
 
  Miller pointed at the small cut his torch had made in the metal. The
notch was only a quarter of an inch deep. "I say
   
   steel
   
  because it's
   
   similar
   
  to steel. Actually, it's a much stronger alloy. Besides that,
on the Moon, there's been no water or atmosphere to rust it. Not even
a wind to disturb its surface. It's
   
   at least
   
  several thousand years
old."
  
