Raymond flushed a delicate pink. "Do you want to hear the rest of this
or don't you?"
  
 
  "Oh, I do!" Martin said. He had pieced the whole thing together for
himself long since, but he wanted to hear how Raymond would put it.
  
 
  "Unfortunately, Professor Farkas has just perfected the time
transmitter. Those government scientists are so infernally
officious—always inventing such senseless things. It's supposed to
be hush-hush, but you know how news will leak out when one is always
desperate for a fresh topic of conversation."
  
 
  Anyhow, Raymond went on to explain, Conrad had bribed one of Farkas'
assistants for a set of the plans. Conrad's idea had been to go back
in time and "eliminate!" their common great-grandfather. In that way,
there would be no space-drive, and, hence, the Terrestrials would never
get to the other planets and oppress the local aborigines.
  
 
  "Sounds like a good way of dealing with the problem," Martin observed.
  
 
  Raymond looked annoyed. "It's the
   
   adolescent
   
  way," he said, "to do
away with it, rather than find a solution. Would you destroy a whole
society in order to root out a single injustice?"
  
 
  "Not if it were a good one otherwise."
  
 
  "Well, there's your answer. Conrad got the apparatus built, or perhaps
he built it himself. One doesn't inquire too closely into such
matters. But when it came to the point, Conrad couldn't bear the idea
of eliminating our great-grandfather—because our great-grandfather
was such a
   
   good
   
  man, you know." Raymond's expressive upper lip
curled. "So Conrad decided to go further back still and get rid of
his great-grandfather's father—who'd been, by all accounts, a pretty
worthless character."
  
 
  "That would be me, I suppose," Martin said quietly.
  
 
  Raymond turned a deep rose. "Well, doesn't that just go to prove you
mustn't believe everything you hear?" The next sentence tumbled out in
a rush. "I wormed the whole thing out of him and all of us—the other
cousins and me—held a council of war, as it were, and we decided it
was our moral duty to go back in time ourselves and protect you." He
beamed at Martin.
  
 
  The boy smiled slowly. "Of course. You had to. If Conrad succeeded in
   
   eliminating
   
  me, then none of you would exist, would you?"
  
 
  Raymond frowned. Then he shrugged cheerfully. "Well, you didn't really
suppose we were going to all this trouble and expense out of sheer
altruism, did you?" he asked, turning on the charm which all the
cousins possessed to a consternating degree.
  
