I decided that this man was doubly dangerous. Not only was he a spy,
he was also a lunatic. So I had two reasons for humoring him. I nodded
politely.
  
 
  "So what happened?" he demanded, and immediately answered himself.
"I'll tell you what happened! Just as he was about to make that first
giant step, Man got a hotfoot. That's all it was, just a little
hotfoot. So what did Man do? I'll tell you what he did. He turned
around and he ran all the way back to the cave he started from, his
tail between his legs.
   
   That's
   
  what he did!"
  
 
  To say that all of this was incomprehensible would be an extreme
understatement. I fulfilled my obligation to this insane dialogue by
saying, "Here's your coffee."
  
 
  "Put it on the table," he said, switching instantly from raving maniac
to watchful spy.
  
 
  I put it on the table. He drank deep, then carried the cup across the
room and sat down in my favorite chair. He studied me narrowly, and
suddenly said, "What did they tell you I was? A spy?"
  
 
  "Of course," I said.
  
 
  He grinned bitterly, with one side of his mouth. "Of course. The damn
fools! Spy! What do you suppose I'm going to spy on?"
  
 
  He asked the question so violently and urgently that I knew I had to
answer quickly and well, or the maniac would return. "I—I wouldn't
know, exactly," I stammered. "Military equipment, I suppose."
  
 
  "Military equipment?
   
   What
   
  military equipment? Your Army is supplied
with uniforms, whistles and hand guns, and that's about it."
  
 
  "The defenses—" I started.
  
 
  "The defenses," he interrupted me, "are non-existent. If you mean the
rocket launchers on the roof, they're rusted through with age. And what
other defenses are there? None."
  
 
  "If you say so," I replied stiffly. The Army claimed that we had
adequate defense equipment. I chose to believe the Army over an enemy
spy.
  
 
  "Your people send out spies, too, don't they?" he demanded.
  
 
  "Well, of course."
  
 
  "And what are
   
   they
   
  supposed to spy on?"
  
 
  "Well—" It was such a pointless question, it seemed silly to even
answer it. "They're supposed to look for indications of an attack by
one of the other projects."
  
 
  "And do they find any indications, ever?"
  
 
  "I'm sure I don't know," I told him frostily. "That would be classified
information."
  
 
  "You bet it would," he said, with malicious glee. "All right, if that's
what
   
   your
   
  spies are doing, and if
   
   I'm
   
  a spy, then it follows that
I'm doing the same thing, right?"
  
 
  "I don't follow you," I admitted.
  
 
  "If I'm a spy," he said impatiently, "then I'm supposed to look for
indications of an attack by you people on my Project."
  
 
  I shrugged. "If that's your job," I said, "then that's your job."
  
 
  He got suddenly red-faced, and jumped to his feet. "That's
   
   not
   
  my
job, you blatant idiot!" he shouted. "I'm not a spy! If I
   
   were
   
  a spy,
   
   then
   
  that would be my job!"
  
