Again they sat in the thick chairs before the wall of desks with the
faces of the council looking across it like defenders.
  
 
  The pumps were beating, beating all through the room and the quiet.
  
 
  The President was standing. He faced Michael and Mary, and seemed to
set himself as though to deliver a blow, or to receive one.
  
 
  "Michael and Mary," he said, his voice struggling against a tightness,
"we've considered a long time concerning what is to be done with you
and the report you brought back to us from the galaxy." He took
another swallow of water. "To protect the sanity of the people, we've
changed your report. We've also decided that the people must be
protected from the possibility of your spreading the truth, as you did
at the landing field. So, for the good of the people, you'll be
isolated. All comforts will be given you. After all, in a sense, you
   
   are
   
  heroes and martyrs. Your scar tissue will be cultured as it has
been in the past, and you will stay in solitary confinement until the
time when, perhaps, we can migrate to another planet. We feel that
hope must not be destroyed. And so another expedition is being sent
out. It may be that, in time, on another planet, you'll be able to
take your place in our society."
  
 
  He paused. "Is there anything you wish to say?"
  
 
  "Yes, there is."
  
 
  "Proceed."
  
 
  Michael stared straight at the President. After a long moment, he
raised his hand to the tiny locket at his throat.
  
 
  "Perhaps you remember," he said, "the lockets given to every member of
the expedition the night before we left. I still have mine." He raised
it. "So does my wife. They were designed to kill the wearer instantly
and painlessly if he were ever faced with pain or a terror he couldn't
endure."
  
 
  The President was standing again. A stir ran along the barricade of
desks.
  
 
  "We can't endure the city," went on Michael, "or its life and the ways
of the people." He glanced along the line of staring faces.
  
 
  "If what I think you're about to say is true," said the President in a
shaking voice, "it would have been better if you'd never been born."
  
 
  "Let's face facts, Mr. President. We were
   
   born
   
  and haven't
died—yet." A pause. "And we can kill ourselves right here before your
eyes. It'd be painless to us. We'd be unconscious. But there would be
horrible convulsions and grimaces. Our bodies would be twisted and
torn. They'd thresh about. The deaths you saw in the picture happened
a long time ago, in outer space. You all went into hysterics at the
sight of them. Our deaths now would be close and terrible to see."
  
 
  The President staggered as though about to faint. There was a stirring
and muttering and a jumping up along the desks. Voices cried out, in
anger and fear. Arms waved and fists pounded. Hands clasped and
unclasped and clawed at collars, and there was a pell mell rushing
around the President. They yelled at each other and clasped each other
by the shoulders, turned away and back again, and then suddenly became
very still.
  
 
  Now they began to step down from the raised line of desks, the
President leading them, and came close to the man and woman, gathering
around them in a wide half circle.
  
 
  Michael and Mary were holding the lockets close to their throats. The
half circle of people, with the President at its center was moving
closer and closer. They were sweaty faces and red ones and dry white
ones and hands were raised to seize them.
  
 
  Michael put his arm around Mary's waist. He felt the trembling in her
body and the waiting for death.
  
 
  "Stop!" he said quietly.
  
 
  They halted, in slight confusion, barely drawing back.
  
 
  "If you want to see us die—just come a step closer.... And remember
what'll happen to you."
  
 
  The faces began turning to each other and there was an undertone of
muttering and whispering. "A ghastly thing.... Instant.... Nothing to
do.... Space's broken their minds.... They'll do it.... Eyes're
mad.... What can we do?... What?..." The sweaty faces, the cold white
ones, the flushed hot ones: all began to turn to the President, who
was staring at the two before him like a man watching himself die in a
mirror.
  
 
  "I command you," he suddenly said, in a choked voice, "to—to give me
those—lockets! It's your—duty!"
  
 
  "We've only one duty, Mr. President," said Michael sharply. "To
ourselves."
  
 
  "You're sick. Give yourselves over to us. We'll help you."
  
 
  "We've made our choice. We want an answer. Quickly! Now!"
  
 
  The President's body sagged. "What—what is it you want?"
  
 
  Michael threw the words. "To go beyond the force fields of the city.
To go far out onto the Earth and live as long as we can, and then to
die a natural death."
  
 
  The half circle of faces turned to each other and muttered and
whispered again. "In the name of God.... Let them go.... Contaminate
us.... Like animals.... Get them out of here....
   
   Let
   
  them be
finished.... Best for us all.... And them...."
  
 
  There was a turning to the President again and hands thrusting him
forward to within one step of Michael and Mary, who were standing
there close together, as though attached.
  
 
  Haltingly he said, "Go. Please go. Out onto the Earth—to die. You
   
   will
   
  die. The Earth is dead out there. You'll never see the city or
your people again."
  
 
  "We want a ground car," said Michael. "And supplies."
  
 
  "A ground car," repeated the President. "And—supplies.... Yes."
  
 
  "You can give us an escort, if you want to, out beyond the first range
of mountains."
  
 
  "There will be no escort," said the President firmly. "No one has been
allowed to go out upon the Earth or to fly above it for many hundreds
of years. We know it's there. That's enough. We couldn't bear the
sight of it." He took a step back. "And we can't bear the sight of you
any longer. Go now. Quickly!"
  
 
  Michael and Mary did not let go of the lockets as they watched the
half circle of faces move backward, staring, as though at corpses that
should sink to the floor.
  
