It was night. The city had been lost beyond the dead mounds of Earth
that rolled away behind them, like a thousand ancient tombs. The
ground car sat still on a crumbling road.
  
 
  Looking up through the car's driving blister, they saw the stars sunk
into the blue black ocean of space; saw the path of the Milky Way
along which they had rushed, while they had been searching frantically
for the place of salvation.
  
 
  "If any one of the other couples had made it back," said Mary, "do you
think they'd be with us?"
  
 
  "I think they'd either be with us," he said, "or out in space
again—or in prison."
  
 
  She stared ahead along the beam of headlight that stabbed out into the
night over the decaying road.
  
 
  "How sorry are you," she said quietly, "coming with me?"
  
 
  "All I know is, if I were out in space for long without you, I'd kill
myself."
  
 
  "Are we going to die out here, Michael?" she said, gesturing toward
the wall of night that stood at the end of the headlight, "with the
land?"
  
 
  He turned from her, frowning, and drove the ground car forward,
watching the headlights push back the darkness.
  
 
  They followed the crumbling highway all night until light crept across
the bald and cracked hills. The morning sun looked down upon the
desolation ten feet above the horizon when the car stopped. They sat
for a long time then, looking out upon the Earth's parched and
inflamed skin. In the distance a wall of mountains rose like a great
pile of bleached bones. Close ahead the rolling plains were motionless
waves of dead Earth with a slight breeze stirring up little swirls of
dust.
  
 
  "I'm getting out," she said.
  
 
  "I haven't the slightest idea how much farther to go, or why," said
Michael shrugging. "It's all the same. Dirt and hills and mountains
and sun and dust. It's really not much different from being out in
space. We live in the car just like in a space ship. We've enough
concentrated supplies to last for a year. How far do we go? Why?
When?"
  
 
  They stepped upon the Earth and felt the warmth of the sun and
strolled toward the top of the hill.
  
 
  "The air smells clean," he said.
  
 
  "The ground feels good. I think I'll take off my shoes." She did.
"Take off your boots, Michael. Try it."
  
 
  Wearily he pulled off his boots, stood in his bare feet. "It takes me
back."
  
 
  "Yes," she said and began walking toward the hilltop.
  
 
  He followed, his boots slung around his neck. "There was a road
somewhere, with the dust between my toes. Or was it a dream?"
  
 
  "I guess when the past is old enough," she said, "it becomes a dream."
  
 
  He watched her footprints in the dust. "God, listen to the quiet."
  
 
  "I can't seem to remember so much quiet around me. There's always been
the sound of a space ship, or the pumps back in the cities."
  
 
  He did not answer but continued to watch her footsteps and to feel the
dust squishing up between his toes. Then suddenly:
  
 
  "Mary!"
  
 
  She stopped, whirling around.
  
 
  He was staring down at her feet.
  
 
  She followed his gaze.
  
 
  "It's grass!" He bent down. "Three blades."
  
 
  She knelt beside him. They touched the green blades.
  
 
  "They're new," he said.
  
 
  They stared, like religious devotees concentrating upon some sacred
object.
  
 
  He rose, pulling her up with him. They hurried to the top of the hill
and stood very still, looking down into a valley. There were tiny
patches of green and little trees sprouting, and here and there, a
pale flower. The green was in a cluster, in the center of the valley
and there was a tiny glint of sunlight in its center.
  
 
  "Oh!"
  
 
  Her hand found his.
  
 
  They ran down the gentle slope, feeling the patches of green touch
their feet, smelling a new freshness in the air. And coming to the
little spring, they stood beside it and watched the crystal water that
trickled along the valley floor and lost itself around a bend. They
saw a furry, little animal scurry away and heard the twitter of a bird
and saw it resting on a slim, bending branch. They heard the buzz of a
bee, saw it light on a pale flower at their feet and work at the
sweetness inside.
  
 
  Mary knelt down and drank from the spring.
  
 
  "It's so cool. It must come from deep down."
  
 
  "It does," he said. There were tears in his eyes and a tightness in
his throat. "From deep down."
  
 
  "We can
   
   live
   
  here, Michael!"
  
 
  Slowly he looked all around until his sight stopped at the bottom of a
hill. "We'll build our house just beyond those rocks. We'll dig and
plant and you'll have the child."
  
 
  "Yes!" she said. "Oh yes!"
  
 
  "And the ones back in the city will know the Earth again. Sometime
we'll lead them back here and show them the Earth is coming alive." He
paused. "By following what we had to do for ourselves, we've found a
way to save them."
  
 
  They remained kneeling in the silence beside the pool for a long time.
They felt the sun on their backs and looked into the clean depth of
the water deeply aware of the new life breathing all around them and
of themselves absorbing it, and at the same time giving back to it the
life that was their own.
  
 
  There was only this quiet and breathing and warmth until Michael stood
and picked up a rock and walked toward the base of the hill where he
had decided to build the house.
  
 
  ... THE END
  
 
