It became evident, too, that the bombardment was being kept up by a
constant arrival of fresh attackers, while others raced away into
space, presumably returning to base to replenish their ammunition. That
argued a planned and prepared interception with virulent hatred behind
it.
  
 
  Elsuz Llug, the gravitic engineer, calculated dismally, "At the rate
we're having to shed energy, the fuel will be gone in six or eight
hours."
  
 
  "We'll have reached Earth before then," Gwar Den said hopefully.
  
 
  "If they don't bring out the heavy artillery first."
  
 
  "We're under the psychological disadvantage," said the captain, "of not
knowing why we're being attacked."
  
 
  Knof Jr. burst out, spluttering slightly with the violence of a
thought too important to suppress, "But we're under a ps-psychological
advantage, too!"
  
 
  His father raised an eyebrow. "What's that? I don't seem to have
noticed it."
  
 
  "They're mad and we aren't, yet," said the boy. Then, seeing that he
hadn't made himself clear, "In a fight, if a guy gets mad he starts
swinging wild and then you nail him."
  
 
  Smiles splintered the ice of tension. Captain Llud said, "Maybe you've
got something there. They seem to be mad, all right. But we're not in
a position to throw any punches." He turned back to the others. "As I
was going to say—I think we'd better try to parley with the enemy. At
least we may find out who he is and why he's determined to smash us."
  
 
  And now instead of tight-beam detectors the ship was broadcasting on an
audio carrier wave that shifted through a wide range of frequencies,
repeating on each the same brief recorded message:
  
 
  "Who are you? What do you want? We are the interstellar expedition
   
   Quest III
   
  ...." And so on, identifying themselves and protesting that
they were unarmed and peaceful, that there must be some mistake, and
querying again, "Who are
   
   you
   
  ?"
  
 
  There was no answer. The ship drove on, its fuel trickling away under
multiplied demands. Those outside were squandering vastly greater
amounts of energy in the effort to batter down its defenses, but
converting that energy into harmless gravitic impulses was costing the
   
   Quest III
   
  too. Once more Knof Llud had the insidious sense of his own
nerves and muscles and will weakening along with the power-sinews of
his ship.
  
 
  Zost Relyul approached him apologetically. "If you have time,
Captain—I've got some data on Earth now."
  
 
  Eagerly Llud took the sheaf of photographs made with the telescope. But
they told him nothing; only the continental outlines were clear, and
those were as they had been nine hundred years ago.... He looked up
inquiringly at Zost Relyul.
  
 
  "There are some strange features," said the astronomer carefully.
"First of all—there are no lights on the night side. And on the
daylight face, our highest magnification should already reveal traces
of cities, canals, and the like—but it does not.
  
 
  "The prevailing color of the land masses, you see, is the normal
green vegetation. But the diffraction spectrum is queer. It indicates
reflecting surfaces less than one-tenth millimeter wide—so the
vegetation there can't be trees or grass, but must be more like a fine
moss or even a coarse mold."
  
 
  "Is that all?" demanded Llud.
  
 
  "Isn't it enough?" said Zost Relyul blankly. "Well—we tried
photography by invisible light, of course. The infra-red shows nothing
and likewise the ultraviolet up to the point where the atmosphere is
opaque to it."
  
 
  The captain sighed wearily. "Good work," he said. "Keep it up; perhaps
you can answer some of these riddles before—"
  
 
  "
   
   We know who you are
   
  ," interrupted a harshly crackling voice with a
strange accent, "
   
   and pleading will do you no good.
   
  "
  
