All right, so I had stopped the bomb's timer. My mind raced ahead to
the landing. When they unloaded the luggage, the balance wheel would
start again. I wouldn't be able to stay with it, keeping it still.
I considered telling the authorities as soon as we landed, or maybe
calling in ahead, but wouldn't that just bring suspicion, questions.
Maybe I could convince them I could stop a clock—but not before the
bomb exploded. And then what? My secret would be out and my life would
be changed. I'd be a man not to be trusted, a prying man, a man
literally with gimlet eyes.
  
 
  Mountain crags jutted through the clouds. We were in the range north of
the city. Here and there were clear spots and I could see roads below,
but there were also clouds far above us. It was very beautiful, but it
was also very bumpy, and we started to slip and slide.
  
 
  To my horror I found that the balance wheel was rocking again. Closing
my eyes and gritting my teeth, I forced my senses to the wheel, tugging
and pulling and shoving and pushing until it finally stopped.
  
 
  A jab in the shoulder. I jumped, startled.
  
 
  "Your cup," my seat partner said, pointing.
  
 
  I looked down at the coffee cup I had crushed in my hands. Then I
looked up into the eyes of the stewardess. I handed it to her. She took
it without a word and went away.
  
 
  "Were you really asleep that time?"
  
 
  "Not really," I said. I was tempted to tell the woman I was subject to
fits, but I didn't.
  
 
  It was only a few minutes to landing, but they became the longest
minutes of my life as time after time I stopped the rocking wheel when
the plane dipped and bumped to a landing.
  
 
  Leaving the apron with the other passengers, I tried to walk as
unconcernedly as they through the exit gate. I would have liked walking
through the terminal and out the entrance and away, but I could not. I
had my suitcase to get, for one thing. The damned bomb was the other.
So I strolled out into the concourse again to look at the plane and
watch the baggagemen at work, transferring the luggage to two airfield
carts. They weren't as careful as I would have been.
  
 
  It was impossible to tell from this distance just which bag contained
the bomb; I could hardly identify my own scarred suitcase. The
assortment of bags—a strange conglomeration of sizes and colors—was
packed in some places six deep, and it rolled toward the gate where
I was standing. I didn't know whether to stay or run, imagining the
balance wheel now happily rocking again. The load went past me down a
ramp to the front of the air terminal where the luggage was unloaded
and placed in a long rack. I went with it.
  
 
  There was a flurry of ticket matching, hands grabbing for suitcases,
and a general exodus on the part of my fellow passengers, too fast to
determine who had got the one with the bomb. Now all that was left was
the attendant and I had two bags—my own battered veteran of years, and
a fine new red overnight case, small enough to be the one.
  
 
  I lit a cigarette, reached out. Inside were a woman's things and—a
clock. The escapement was clicking vigorously.
  
 
  I didn't moan this time. I just closed my eyes, stretched toward
and grabbed the balance wheel I was getting to know like my own. I
entered into a union with it so strong that after I had reduced it to
immobility, it was like waking when I opened my eyes.
  
