"Gosh, no," Dan reassured the eye. "I'm crazy about—uh—"
  
 
  "Vorplischers," the voice said. "From Vorplisch, or Vega, as you call
it." The Bronx cheer sounded again. "How I long to glimpse once more my
native fens! Wherever one wanders, there's no pad like home."
  
 
  "That reminds me," Dan said. "I have to be running along now." He
sidled toward the door.
  
 
  "Stick around, Dan," the voice rumbled. "How about a drink? I can
offer you Chateau Neuf du Pape, '59, Romance Conte, '32, goat's milk,
Pepsi—"
  
 
  "No, thanks."
  
 
  "If you don't mind, I believe I'll have a Big Orange." The Vorplischer
swiveled to a small refrigerator, removed an immense bottle fitted with
a nipple and turned back to Dan. "Now, I got a proposition which may be
of some interest to you. The loss of Manny and Fiorello is a serious
blow, but we may yet recoup the situation. You made the scene at a most
opportune time. What I got in mind is, with those two clowns out of the
picture, a vacancy exists on my staff, which you might well fill. How
does that grab you?"
  
 
  "You mean you want me to take over operating the time machine?"
  
 
  "Time machine?" The brown eyes blinked alternately. "I fear some
confusion exists. I don't quite dig the significance of the term."
  
 
  "That thing," Dan jabbed a thumb toward the cage. "The machine I came
here in. You want me—"
  
 
  "Time machine," the voice repeated. "Some sort of chronometer, perhaps?"
  
 
  "Huh?"
  
 
  "I pride myself on my command of the local idiom, yet I confess the
implied concept snows me." The nine-fingered hands folded on the desk.
The beachball head leaned forward interestedly. "Clue me, Dan. What's a
time machine?"
  
 
  "Well, it's what you use to travel through time."
  
 
  The brown eyes blinked in agitated alternation. "Apparently I've loused
up my investigation of the local cultural background. I had no idea
you were capable of that sort of thing." The immense head leaned back,
the wide mouth opening and closing rapidly. "And to think I've been
spinning my wheels collecting primitive 2-D art!"
  
 
  "But—don't you have a time machine? I mean, isn't that one?"
  
 
  "That? That's merely a carrier. Now tell me more about your time
machines. A fascinating concept! My superiors will be delighted at
this development—and astonished as well. They regard this planet as
Endsville."
  
