Knof Llud whirled to the radio apparatus, his weariness dropping from
him once more. He snapped, "But who are you?" and the words blended
absurdly with the same words in his own voice on the still repeating
tape.
  
 
  He snapped off the record; as he did so the speaker, still crackling
with space static, said, "It may interest you to know that you are the
last. The two other interstellar expeditions that went out have already
returned and been destroyed, as you will soon be—the sooner, if you
continue toward Earth."
  
 
  Knof Llud's mind was clicking again. The voice—which must be coming
from Earth, relayed by one of the midget ships—was not very smart; it
had already involuntarily told him a couple of things—that it was not
as sure of itself as it sounded he deduced from the fact it had deigned
to speak at all, and from its last remark he gathered that the
   
   Quest
III's
   
  ponderous and unswerving progress toward Earth had somehow
frightened it. So it was trying to frighten them.
  
 
  He shoved those facts back for future use. Just now he had to know
something, so vitally that he asked it as a bald question, "
   
   Are you
human?
   
  "
  
 
  The voice chuckled sourly. "We are human," it answered, "but you are
not."
  
 
  The captain was momentarily silent, groping for an adequate reply.
Behind him somebody made a choked noise, the only sound in the stunned
hush, and the ship jarred slightly as a thunderbolt slammed vengefully
into its field.
  
 
  "Suppose we settle this argument about humanity," said Knof Llud
woodenly. He named a vision frequency.
  
 
  "Very well." The tone was like a shrug. The voice went on in its
language that was quite intelligible, but alien-sounding with the
changes that nine hundred years had wrought. "Perhaps, if you realize
your position, you will follow the intelligent example of the
   
   Quest
I's
   
  commander."
  
 
  Knof Llud stiffened. The
   
   Quest I
   
  , launched toward Arcturus and the
star cloud called Berenice's Hair, had been after the
   
   Quest III
   
  the
most hopeful of the expeditions—and its captain had been a good friend
of Llud's, nine hundred years ago.... He growled, "What happened to
him?"
  
 
  "He fought off our interceptors, which are around you now, for some
time," said the voice lightly. "When he saw that it was hopeless, he
preferred suicide to defeat, and took his ship into the Sun." A short
pause. "The vision connection is ready."
  
 
  Knof Llud switched on the screen at the named wavelength, and a
picture formed there. The face and figure that appeared were ugly,
but undeniably a man's. His features and his light-brown skin showed
the same racial characteristics possessed by those aboard the
   
   Quest
III
   
  , but he had an elusive look of deformity. Most obviously, his head
seemed too big for his body, and his eyes in turn too big for his head.
  
 
  He grinned nastily at Knof Llud. "Have you any other last wishes?"
  
 
  "Yes," said Llud with icy control. "You haven't answered one question.
Why do you want to kill us? You can see we're as human as you are."
  
 
  The big-headed man eyed him with a speculative look in his great
eyes, behind which the captain glimpsed the flickering raw fire of a
poisonous hatred.
  
 
  "It is enough for you to know that you must die."
  
