He paused shamefacedly. A second girl, he saw, was running toward
them from up the canyon. Her bare legs flashed like ivory. She was
barefooted, and she had black hair. A green cloth was wrapped around
her sarong fashion. She bounced to a stop in front of Jonathan, her
brown eyes wide in surprise. He thought her sarong had been a table
cloth at one time in its history.
  
 
  "A man!" she breathed. "By Jupiter and all its little moons, it's a
man!"
  
 
  "Don't let him get away!" cried Ann.
  
 
  "Hilda!" the brunette shrieked. "A man! It's a man!"
  
 
  A third girl skidded around the bend in the canyon. Jonathan backed off
warily.
  
 
  Ann Clotilde cried in anguish: "Don't let him get away!"
  
 
  Jonathan chose the centaurs. He wheeled around, dashed back the way
he had come. Someone tackled him. He rolled on the rocky floor of the
canyon. He struggled to his feet. He saw six more girls race around the
bend in the canyon. With shouts of joy they flung themselves on him.
  
 
  Jonathan was game, but the nine husky amazons pinned him down by sheer
weight. They bound him hand and foot. Then four of them picked him up
bodily, started up the canyon chanting: "
   
   He was a rocket riding daddy
from Mars.
   
  " He recognized it as a popular song of three years ago.
  
 
  Jonathan had never been so humiliated in his life. He was known in the
spaceways from Mercury to Jupiter as a man to leave alone. His nose had
been broken three times. A thin white scar crawled down the bronze of
his left cheek, relic of a barroom brawl on Venus. He was big, rangy,
tough. And these girls had trounced him. Girls! He almost wept from
mortification.
  
 
  He said, "Put me down. I'll walk."
  
 
  "You won't try to get away?" said Ann.
  
 
  "No," he replied with as much dignity as he could summon while being
held aloft by four barbarous young women.
  
 
  "Let him down," said Ann. "We can catch him, anyway, if he makes a
break."
  
 
  Jonathan Fawkes' humiliation was complete. He meekly trudged between
two husky females, who ogled him shamelessly. He was amazed at the ease
with which they had carried him. He was six feet three and no light
weight. He thought enviously of the centaurs, free to gallop across the
plains. He wished he was a centaur.
  
 
  The trail left the canyon, struggled up the precipitate walls. Jonathan
picked his way gingerly, hugged the rock. "Don't be afraid," advised
one of his captors. "Just don't look down."
  
 
  "I'm not afraid," said Jonathan hotly. To prove it he trod the narrow
ledge with scorn. His foot struck a pebble. Both feet went out from
under him. He slithered halfway over the edge. For one sickening moment
he thought he was gone, then Ann grabbed him by the scruff of his neck,
hauled him back to safety. He lay gasping on his stomach. They tied a
rope around his waist then, and led him the rest of the way to the top
like a baby on a leash. He was too crestfallen to resent it.
  
 
  The trail came out on a high ridge. They paused on a bluff overlooking
the prairie.
  
 
  "Look!" cried Ann pointing over the edge.
  
 
  A half dozen beasts were trotting beneath on the plain. At first,
Jonathan mistook them for horses. Then he saw that from the withers up
they resembled men. Waists, shoulders, arms and heads were identical to
his own, but their bodies were the bodies of horses.
  
 
  "Centaurs!" Jonathan Fawkes said, not believing his eyes.
  
