"Yeah, but how does it work?" Tony Carmen demanded of me, sleeking his
mirror-black hair and staring up at the disk-topped drum.
  
 
  "Why do you care?" I asked irritably. "It will dispose of your bodies
for you."
  
 
  "I got a reason that goes beyond the stiff, but let's stick to that
just for now.
   
   Where are these bodies going?
   
  I don't want them winding
up in the D.A.'s bathtub."
  
 
  "Why not? How could they trace them back to you?"
  
 
  "You're the scientist," Tony said hotly. "I got great respect for those
crime lab boys. Maybe the stiff got some of my exclusive brand of talc
on it, I don't know."
  
 
  "Listen here, Carmen," I said, "what makes you think these bodies are
going somewhere? Think of it only as a kind of—incinerator."
  
 
  "Not on your life, Professor. The gadget don't get hot so how can it
burn? It don't use enough electricity to fry. It don't cut 'em up
or crush 'em down, or dissolve them in acid. I've seen disappearing
cabinets before."
  
 
  Mafia or not, I saw red. "Are you daring to suggest that I am working
some trick with trap doors or sliding panels?"
  
 
  "Easy, Professor," Carmen said, effortlessly shoving me back with one
palm. "I'm not saying you have the machine rigged. It's just that
you have to be dropping the stuff through a sliding panel in—well,
everything around us. You're sliding all that aside and dropping things
through. But I want to know where they wind up. Reasonable?"
  
 
  Carmen was an uneducated lout and a criminal but he had an instinctive
feel for the mechanics of physics.
  
 
  "I don't know where the stuff goes, Carmen," I finally admitted. "It
might go into another plane of existence. 'Another dimension' the
writers for the American Weekly would describe it. Or into our past, or
our future."
  
 
  The swarthy racketeer pursed his lips and apparently did some rapid
calculation.
  
 
  "I don't mind the first two, but I don't like them going into the
future. If they do that, they may show up again in six months."
  
 
  "Or six million years."
  
 
  "You'll have to cut that future part out, Professor."
  
 
  I was beginning to get a trifle impatient. All those folk tales I had
heard about the Mafia were getting more distant. "See here, Carmen, I
could lie to you and say they went into the prehistoric past and you
would never know the difference. But the truth is, I just don't know
where the processed material goes. There's a chance it may go into
the future, yes. But unless it goes exactly one year or exactly so
many years it would appear in empty space ... because the earth will
have moved from the spot it was transmitted. I don't know for sure.
Perhaps the slight Deneb-ward movement of the Solar System would wreck
a perfect three-point landing even then and cause the dispatched
materials to burn up from atmospheric friction, like meteors. You will
just have to take a chance on the future. That's the best I can do."
  
 
  Carmen inhaled deeply. "Okay. I'll risk it. Pretty long odds against
any squeal on the play. How many of these things can you turn out,
Professor?"
  
 
  "I can construct a duplicate of this device so that you may destroy the
unwanted corpses that you would have me believe are delivered to you
with the regularity of the morning milk run."
  
 
  The racketeer waved that suggestion aside. "I'm talking about a big
operation, Venetti. These things can take the place of incinerators,
garbage disposals, waste baskets...."
  
 
  "Impractical," I snorted. "You don't realize the tremendous amount of
electrical power these devices require...."
  
 
  "Nuts! From what you said, the machine is like a TV set; it takes
a lot of power to get it started, but then on it coasts on its own
generators."
  
