class="chap"/>
  
  3.
  
 
  They were waving short clubs or whips with stones tied to the ends.
They charged up the slope, about sixty yards, swinging their weird
clubs with a threat of death.
  
 
  Wild disorder suddenly struck the audience. Campbell and I believed we
were about to witness a massacre.
  
 
  "Captain—
   
   Jim
   
  ! You're not going to let this happen!"
  
 
  Our sympathies had gone to the first groups, the peaceable ones. I had
the same impulse as Campbell—to do something—anything! Yet here we
sat in our ship, more than half a mile from our thirty-five or forty
"friends" in danger.
  
 
  Our friends were panicked. But they didn't take flight. They didn't
duck for the holes in the rocky hilltop. Instead, they rallied and
packed themselves around their tall leader. They stood, a defiant wall.
  
 
  "Can we shoot a ray, Jim?"
  
 
  I didn't answer. Later I would recall that Split
   
   could
   
  drop his
dignity under excitement—his "Captain Linden" and "sir." Just now he
wanted any sort of split-second order.
  
 
  We saw the naked warriors run out in a wide circle. They spun and
weaved, they twirled their deadly clubs, they danced grotesquely. They
were closing in. Closer and closer. It was all their party.
  
 
  "Jim, can we shoot?"
  
 
  "Hit number sixteen, Campbell."
  
 
  Split touched the number sixteen signal.
  
 
  The ship's siren wailed out over the land.
  
 
  You could tell when the sound struck them. The circle of savage ones
suddenly fell apart. The dancing broke into the wildest contortions you
ever saw. As if they'd been spanked by a wave of electricity. The siren
scream must have sounded like an animal cry from an unknown world. The
attackers ran for the sponge-trees. The rootless jungle came to life.
It jerked and jumped spasmodically down the slope. And our siren kept
right on singing.
  
 
  "Ready for that hike, Campbell? Give me my equipment coat." I got
into it. I looked back to the telescope. The tall man of the party
had behaved with exceptional calmness. He had turned to stare in our
direction from the instant the siren sounded. He could no doubt make
out the lines of our silvery ship in the shadows. Slowly, deliberately,
he marched over the hilltop toward us.
  
 
  Most of his party now scampered back to the safety of their hiding
places in the ground. But a few—the brave ones, perhaps, or the
officials of his group—came with him.
  
 
  "He needs a stronger guard than that," Campbell grumbled.
  
 
  Sixteen was still wailing. "Set it for ten minutes and come on," I
said. Together we descended from the ship.
  
 
  We took into our nostrils the tangy air, breathing fiercely, at first.
We slogged along over the rock surface feeling our weight to be
one-and-a-third times normal. We glanced down the slope apprehensively.
We didn't want any footraces. The trees, however, were still
retreating. Our siren would sing on for another eight minutes. And
in case of further danger, we were equipped with the standard pocket
arsenal of special purpose capsule bombs.
  
 
  Soon we came face to face with the tall, stately old leader in the
cream-and-red cloak.
  
 
  Split and I stood together, close enough to exchange comments against
the siren's wail. Fine looking people, we observed. Smooth faces.
Like the features of Earth men. These creatures could walk down
any main street back home. With a bit of makeup they would pass.
"Notice, Captain, they have strange looking eyes." "Very smooth."
"It's because they have no eyebrows ... no eye lashes." "Very
smooth—handsome—attractive."
  
 
  Then the siren went off.
  
 
  The leader stood before me, apparently unafraid. He seemed to be
waiting for me to explain my presence. His group of twelve gathered in
close.
  
 
  I had met such situations with ease before. "EGGWE" explorers come
equipped. I held out a gift toward the leader. It was a singing
medallion attached to a chain. It was disc-shaped, patterned after a
large silver coin. It made music at the touch of a button. In clear,
dainty bell tones it rang out its one tune, "Trail of Stars."
  
 
  As it played I held it up for inspection. I placed it around my own
neck, then offered it to the leader. I thought he was smiling. He was
not overwhelmed by the "magic" of this gadget. He saw it for what it
was, a token of friendship. There was a keenness about him that I
liked. Yes, he was smiling. He bent his head forward and allowed me to
place the gift around his neck.
  
 
  "Tomboldo," he said, pointing to himself.
  
 
  Split and I tried to imitate his breathy accents as we repeated aloud,
"Tomboldo."
  
 
  We pointed to ourselves, in turn, and spoke our own names. And then,
as the names of the others were pronounced, we tried to memorize each
breathy sound that was uttered. I was able to remember four or five of
them. One was Gravgak.
  
 
  Gravgak's piercing eyes caused me to notice him. Suspicious eyes? I did
not know these people's expressions well enough to be sure.
  
 
  Gravgak was a guard, tall and muscular, whose arms and legs were
painted with green and black diamond designs.
  
 
  By motions and words we didn't understand, we inferred that we were
invited to accompany the party back home, inside the hill, where we
would be safe. I nodded to Campbell. "It's our chance to be guests of
Tomboldo." Nothing could have pleased us more. For our big purpose—to
understand the Serpent River—would be forwarded greatly if we could
learn, through the people, what its meanings were. To analyze the
river's substance, estimate its rate, its weight, its temperature, and
to map its course—these facts were only a part of the information we
sought. The fuller story would be to learn how the inhabitants of this
planet regarded it: whether they loved or shunned it, and what legends
they may have woven around it. All this knowledge would be useful when
future expeditions of men from the Earth followed us (through EGGWE)
for an extension of peaceful trade relationships.
  
 
  Tomboldo depended upon the guard Gravgak to make sure that the way was
safe. Gravgak was supposed to keep an eye on the line of floating trees
that had taken flight down the hillside. Danger still lurked there, we
knew. And now the siren that had frightened off the attack was silent.
Our ship, locked against invaders, could be forgotten. We were guests
of Tomboldo.
  
 
  Gravgak was our guard, but he didn't work at it. He was too anxious to
hear all the talk. In the excitement of our meeting, everyone ignored
the growing darkness, the lurking dangers. Gravgak confronted us with
agitated jabbering:
  
 
  "Wollo—yeeta—vo—vandartch—vandartch! Grr—see—o—see—o—see—o!"
  
 
  "See—o—see—o—see—o," one of the others echoed.
  
 
  It began to make sense. They wanted us to repeat the siren noises. The
enemy had threatened their lives. There could very well have been a
wholesale slaughter. But as long as we could make the "see—o—see—o"
we were all safe.
  
 
  Split and I exchanged glances. He touched his hand to the equipment
jacket, to remind me we were armed with something more miraculous than
a yowling siren.
  
 
  "See—o—see—o—see—o!" Others of Tomboldo's party echoed the demand.
They must have seen the sponge-trees again moving toward our path.
"
   
   See—o—see—o!
   
  "
  
 
  Our peaceful march turned into a spasm of terror. The sponge-trees
came rushing up the slope, as if borne by a sudden gust of wind. They
bounced over our path, and the war party spilled out of them.
  
 
  Shouting. A wild swinging of clubs. And no cat-and-mouse tricks. No
deliberate circling and closing in. An outright attack. Naked bodies
gleaming in the semi-darkness. Arms swinging weapons, choosing the
nearest victims. The luminous rocks on the ends of the clubs flashed.
Shouting, screeching, hurling their clubs. The whizzing fury filled the
air.
  
 
  I hurled a capsule bomb. It struck at the base of a bouncing
sponge-tree, and blew the thing to bits.
  
 
  The attackers ran back into a huddle, screaming. Then they came
forward, rushing defiantly.
  
 
  Our muscular guard, Gravgak was too bold. He had picked up one of their
clubs and he ran toward their advance, and to all of Tomboldo's party
it must have appeared that he was bravely rushing to his death. Yet
the gesture of the club he swung so wildly could have been intended as
a
   
   warning
   
  ! It could have meant, Run back, you fools, or these
strange devils will throw fire at you.
  
 
  I threw fire. And so did my lieutenant. He didn't wait for orders,
thank goodness. He knew it was their lives or ours. Zip, zip,
zip—BLANG-BLANG-BLANG! The bursts of fire at their feet ripped the
rocks. The spray caught them and knocked them back. Three or four
warriors in the fore ranks were torn up in the blasts. Others were
flattened—and those who were able, ran.
  
 
  They ran, not waiting for the cover of sponge-trees. Not bothering to
pick up their clubs.
  
 
  But the operation was not a complete success. We had suffered a serious
casualty. The guard Gravgak. He had rushed out too far, and the first
blast of fire and rock had knocked him down. Now Tomboldo and others of
the party hovered over him.
  
 
  His eyes opened a little. I thought he was staring at me, drilling me
with suspicion. I worked over him with medicines. The crowd around us
stood back in an attitude of awe as Split and I applied ready bandages,
and held a stimulant to his nostrils that made him breath back to
consciousness.
  
 
  Suddenly he came to life. Lying there on his back, with the club still
at his fingertips, he swung up on one elbow. The swift motion caused
a cry of joy from the crowd. I heard a little of it—and then blacked
out. For as the muscular Gravgak moved, his fingers closed over the
handle of the club. It whizzed upward with him—apparently all by
accident. The stone that dangled from the end of the club crashed into
my head.
  
 
  I went into instant darkness. Darkness, and a long, long silence.
  
