class="chap"/>
  
  4.
  
 
  Vauna, the beautiful daughter of Tomboldo, came into my life during the
weeks that I lay unconscious.
  
 
  I must have talked aloud much during those feverish hours of darkness.
  
 
  "Campbell!" I would call out of a nightmare. "Campbell, we're about to
land. Is everything set? Check the instruments again, Campbell."
  
 
  "S-s-sh!" The low hush of Split Campbell's voice would somehow
penetrate my dream.
  
 
  The voices about me were soft. My dreams echoed the soft female voices
of this new, strange language.
  
 
  "Campbell, are you there?... Have you forgotten the Code, Campbell?"
  
 
  "Quiet, Captain."
  
 
  "Who is it that's swabbing my face? I can't see."
  
 
  "It's Vauna. She's smiling at you, Captain. Can't you see her?"
  
 
  "Is this the pretty one we saw through the telescope?"
  
 
  "One of them."
  
 
  "And what of the other? There were two together. I remember—"
  
 
  "Omosla is here too. She's Vauna's attendant. We're all looking after
you, Captain Linden. Did you know I performed an operation to relieve
the pressure on your brain? You must get well, Captain." The words of
Campbell came through insistently.
  
 
  After a silence that may have lasted for hours or days, I said,
"Campbell, you haven't forgot the EGGWE Code?"
  
 
  "Of course not, Captain."
  
 
  "Section Four?"
  
 
  "Section Four," he repeated in a low voice, as if to pacify me and put
me to sleep. "Conduct of EGGWE agents toward native inhabitants: A, No
agent shall enter into any diplomatic agreement that shall be construed
as binding—"
  
 
  I interrupted. "Clause D?"
  
 
  He picked it up. "D, no agent shall enter into a marriage contract with
any native.... H-m-m. You're not trying to warn me, are you, Captain
Linden? Or are you warning
   
   yourself
   
  ?"
  
 
  At that moment my eyes opened a little. Swimming before my blurred
vision was the face of Vauna. I did remember her—yes, she must have
haunted my dreams, for now my eyes burned in an effort to define her
features more clearly. This was indeed Vauna, who had been one of the
party of twelve, and had walked beside her father in the face of the
attack. Deep within my subconscious the image of her beautiful face and
figure had lingered. I murmured a single word of answer to Campbell's
question. "Myself."
  
 
  In the hours that followed, I came to know the soft footsteps of Vauna.
The caverns in which she and her father and all these Benzendella
people lived were pleasantly warm and fragrant. My misty impressions of
their life about me were like the first impressions of a child learning
about the world into which he has been born.
  
 
  Sometimes I would hear Vauna and her attendant Omosla talking together.
Often when Campbell would stop in this part of the cavern to inquire
about me, Omosla would drop in also. She and Campbell were learning to
converse in simple words. And Vauna and I—yes. If I could only avoid
blacking out.
  
 
  I wanted to see her.
  
 
  So often my eyes would refuse to open. A thousand nightmares. Space
ships shooting through meteor swarms. Stars like eyes. Eyes like stars.
The eyes of Vauna, the daughter of Tomboldo. The sensitive stroke of
Vauna's fingers, brushing my forehead, pressing my hand.
  
 
  I regained my health gradually.
  
 
  "Are you quite awake?" Vauna would ask me in her musical Benzendella
words. "You speak better today. Your friend Campbell has brought you
more recordings of our language, so you can learn to speak more. My
father is eager to talk with you. But you must sleep more. You are
still weak."
  
 
  It gave me a weird sensation to awaken in the night, trying to adjust
myself to my surroundings. The Benzendellas were sleep-singers. By
night they murmured mysterious little songs through their sleep.
Strange harmonies whispered through the caves.
  
 
  And if I stirred restlessly, the footsteps of Vauna might come to me
through the darkness. In her sleeping garments she would come to me,
faintly visible in the pink light that filtered through from some
corridor. She would whisper melodious Benzendella words and tell me to
go back to sleep, and I would drift into the darkness of my endless
dreams.
  
 
  The day came when I awakened to see both Vauna and her father standing
before me. Stern old Tomboldo, with his chalk-smooth face and not a
hint of an eyebrow or eyelash, rapped his hand against my ribs, shook
the fiber bed lightly, and smiled. From a pocket concealed in his
flowing cape, he drew forth the musical watch, touched the button, and
played, "Trail of Stars."
  
 
  "I have learned to talk," I said.
  
 
  "You have had a long sleep."
  
 
  "I am well again. See, I can almost walk." But as I started to rise,
the wave of blackness warned me, and I restrained my ambition. "I will
walk soon."
  
 
  "We will have much to talk about. Your friend has pointed to the stars
and told me a strange story of your coming. We have walked around the
ship. He has told me how it rides through the sky. I can hardly make
myself believe." Tomboldo's eyes cast upward under the strong ridge of
forehead where the eyebrows should have been. He was evidently trying
to visualize the flight of a space ship. "We will have much to tell
each other."
  
 
  "I hope so," I said. "Campbell and I came to learn about the
   
   serpent
river
   
  ." I resorted to my own language for the last two words, not
knowing the Benzendella equivalent.
   
   I
   
  made an eel-like motion
with my arm. But they didn't understand. And before I could explain,
the footsteps of other Benzendellas approached, and presently I looked
around to see that quite an audience had gathered. The most prominent
figure of the new group was the big muscular guard of the black and
green diamond markings—Gravgak.
  
 
  "You get well?" Gravgak said to me. His eyes drilled me closely.
  
 
  "I get well," I said.
  
 
  "The blow on the head," he said, "was not meant."
  
 
  I looked at him. Everyone was looking at him, and I knew this was meant
to be an occasion of apology. But the light of fire in Vauna's eyes
told me that she did not believe. He saw her look, and his own eyes
flashed darts of defiance. With an abrupt word to me, he wheeled and
started off. "Get well!"
  
 
  The crowd of men and women made way for him. But in the arched doorway
he turned. "Vauna. I am ready to speak to you alone."
  
 
  She started. I reached and barely touched her hand. She stopped. "I
will talk with you later, Gravgak."
  
 
  "Now!" he shouted. "Alone."
  
 
  He stalked off. A moment later Vauna, after exchanging a word with her
father, excused herself from the crowd and followed Gravgak.
  
 
  From the way those in the room looked, I knew this must be a dramatic
moment. It was as if she had acknowledged Gravgak as her master—or her
lover. He had called for her. She had followed.
  
 
  But her old father was still the master. He stepped toward the door.
"Vauna!... Gravgak!... Come back."
  
 
  (I will always wonder what might have happened if he hadn't called
them! Was my distrust of Gravgak justified? Had I become merely a
jealous lover—or was I right in my hunch that the tall muscular guard
was a potential traitor?)
  
 
  Vauna reappeared at once. I believe she was glad that she had been
called back.
  
 
  Gravgak came sullenly. At the edge of the crowd in the arched doorway
he stood scowling.
  
 
  "While we are together," old Tomboldo said quietly, looking around at
the assemblage, "I must tell you the decision of the council. Soon we
will move back to the other part of the world."
  
 
  There were low murmurs of approval through the chamber.
  
 
  "We will wait a few days," Tomboldo went on, "until our new friend—"
he pointed to me—"is well enough to travel. We would never leave him
here to the mercy of the savage ones. He and his helper came through
the sky in time to save us from being destroyed. We must never forget
this kindness. When we ascend the
   
   Kao-Wagwattl
   
  , the ever moving
   
   rope of life
   
  , these friends shall come with us. On the back of
the Kao-Wagwattl
   
   they shall ride with us across the land
   
  ."
  
