  THE SOUL EATERS
  
 
  By WILLIAM CONOVER
  
 
  Firebrand Dennis Brooke had one final chance
   
  to redeem himself by capturing Koerber whose
   
  ships were the scourge of the Void. But his
   
  luck had run its course, and now he was
   
  marooned on a rogue planet—fighting to save
   
  himself from a menace weapons could not kill.
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Planet Stories Fall 1944.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  "
   
   And so, my dear
   
  ," Dennis detected a faint irony in the phrase, "
   
   I'm
afraid I can offer no competition to the beauties of five planets—or
is it six? With regret I bow myself out, and knowing me as you do,
you'll understand the futility of trying to convince me again. Anyway,
there will be no temptation, for I'm sailing on a new assignment I've
accepted. I did love you.... Good-by.
   
  "
  
 
  Dennis Brooke had lost count of the times he'd read Marla's last
letter, but every time he came to these final, poignant lines, they
never failed to conjure a vision of her tawny loveliness, slender as
the palms of Venus, and of the blue ecstasy of her eyes, wide with a
perpetual wonder—limpid as a child's.
  
 
  The barbaric rhythms of the
   
   Congahua
   
  , were a background of annoyance
in Dennis' mind; he frowned slightly as the maneuvers of the Mercurian
dancer, who writhed among the guests of the notorious pleasure palace,
began to leave no doubt as to her intentions. The girl was beautiful,
in a sultry, almost incandescent sort of way, but her open promise left
him cold. He wanted solitude, somewhere to coordinate his thoughts
in silence and salvage something out of the wreck of his heart, not
to speak of his career. But Venus, in the throes of a gigantic boom
upon the discovery of radio-active fields, could offer only one
solitude—the fatal one of her swamps and virgin forests.
  
 
  Dennis Brooke was thirty, the time when youth no longer seems unending.
When the minor adventures of the heart begin to pall. If the loss of
Marla left an aching void that all the women of five planets could not
fill, the loss of Space, was quite as deadly. For he had been grounded.
True, Koerber's escape from the I.S.P. net had not quite been his
fault; but had he not been enjoying the joys of a voluptuous Jovian
Chamber, in Venus' fabulous Inter-planetary Palace, he would have been
ready for duty to complete the last link in the net of I.S.P. cruisers
that almost surrounded the space pirate.
  
 
  A night in the Jovian Chamber, was to be emperor for one night. Every
dream of a man's desire was marvelously induced through the skilful use
of hypnotics; the rarest viands and most delectable drinks appeared as
if by magic; the unearthly peace of an Olympus descended on a man's
soul, and beauty ... beauty such as men dreamed of was a warm reality
under the ineffable illumination of the Chamber.
  
 
  It cost a young fortune. But to pleasure mad, boom-ridden Venus, a
fortune was a bagatelle. Only it had cost Dennis Brooke far more than a
sheaf of credits—it had cost him the severe rebuff of the I.S.P., and
most of his heart in Marla.
  
 
  Dennis sighed, he tilted his red, curly head and drank deeply of the
insidious
   
   Verbena
   
  , fragrant as a mint garden, in the tall frosty
glass of Martian
   
   Bacca-glas
   
  , and as he did so, his brilliant hazel
eyes found themselves gazing into the unwinking, violet stare of a
young Martian at the next table. There was a smouldering hatred in
those eyes, and something else ... envy, perhaps, or was it jealousy?
Dennis couldn't tell. But his senses became instantly alert. Danger
brought a faint vibration which his superbly trained faculties could
instantly denote.
  
 
  His steady, bronzed hand lowered the drink, and his eyes narrowed
slightly. Absorbed in trying to puzzle the sudden enmity of this
Martian stranger, he was unaware of the Mercurian Dancer. The latter
had edged closer, whirling in prismatic flashes from the myriad
semi-precious stones that studded her brief gauze skirt. And now, in
a final bid for the spacer's favor she flung herself in his lap and
tilted back invitingly.
  
 
  Some of the guests laughed, others stared in plain envy at the
handsome, red-haired spacer, but from the table across, came the
tinkling sound of a fragile glass being crushed in a powerful hand,
and a muffled Martian curse. Without warning, the Martian was on his
feet with the speed of an Hellacorium, the table went crashing to one
side as he leaped with deadly intent on the sprawled figure of Dennis
Brooke. A high-pitched scream brought instant silence as a Terran girl
cried out. Then the Martian's hand reached out hungrily. But Dennis was
not there.
  
