Retief stooped under the heavy timbers shoring the entry to the cavern.
He peered into the gloom at the curving flank of the space-burned hull.
  
 
  "Any lights in here?" he asked.
  
 
  A Groacian threw a switch. A weak bluish glow sprang up.
  
 
  Retief walked along the raised wooden catwalk, studying the ship. Empty
emplacements gaped below lensless scanner eyes. Littered decking was
visible within the half-open entry port. Near the bow the words 'IVS
Terrific B7 New Terra' were lettered in bright chrome duralloy.
  
 
  "How did you get it in here?" Retief asked.
  
 
  "It was hauled here from the landing point, some nine miles distant,"
Fith said, his voice thinner than ever. "This is a natural crevasse.
The vessel was lowered into it and roofed over."
  
 
  "How did you shield it so the detectors didn't pick it up?"
  
 
  "All here is high-grade iron ore," Fith said, waving a member. "Great
veins of almost pure metal."
  
 
  Retief grunted. "Let's go inside."
  
 
  Shluh came forward with a hand-lamp. The party entered the ship.
  
 
  Retief clambered up a narrow companionway, glanced around the interior
of the control compartment. Dust was thick on the deck, the stanchions
where acceleration couches had been mounted, the empty instrument
panels, the litter of sheared bolts, scraps of wire and paper. A thin
frosting of rust dulled the exposed metal where cutting torches had
sliced away heavy shielding. There was a faint odor of stale bedding.
  
 
  "The cargo compartment—" Shluh began.
  
 
  "I've seen enough," Retief said.
  
 
  Silently, the Groacians led the way back out through the tunnel and
into the late afternoon sunshine. As they climbed the slope to the
steam car, Fith came to Retief's side.
  
 
  "Indeed, I hope that this will be the end of this unfortunate affair,"
he said. "Now that all has been fully and honestly shown—"
  
 
  "You can skip all that," Retief said. "You're nine years late. The
crew was still alive when the task force called, I imagine. You killed
them—or let them die—rather than take the chance of admitting what
you'd done."
  
 
  "We were at fault," Fith said abjectly. "Now we wish only friendship."
  
 
  "The
   
   Terrific
   
  was a heavy cruiser, about twenty thousand tons."
Retief looked grimly at the slender Foreign Office official. "Where is
she, Fith? I won't settle for a hundred-ton lifeboat."
  
