He cleared his throat professorially. "Well, now, in ordinary light
the vibrations are perpendicular to the ray in all directions. When
light is polarized by passing through crystals or by reflection or
refraction at non-metallic surfaces, the paths of the vibrations are
still perpendicular to the ray, but they're in straight lines, circles
or ellipses."
  
 
  The faces were still blank and unillumined.
  
 
  "Gravity is similar to light," he pressed on. "In the absence of
matter, gravity is non-polarized. Matter polarizes gravity in a circle
around itself. That's how we've always known it until the invention of
spaceships and later the polarizer. The polarizer polarizes gravity
into a straight line. That makes the ship take off and continue
accelerating until the polarizer is shut off or its angle is shifted."
  
 
  The faces looked at him silently. Finally Joyce could endure it no
longer. "That's just nonsense! You all know it. Grampa's no genius.
He's just a tinkerer. One day he happened to tinker out the polarizer.
He doesn't know how it works any more than I do."
  
 
  "Now wait a minute!" Grampa protested. "That's not fair. Maybe
I didn't figure out the theory myself, but I read everything the
scientists ever wrote about it. Wanted to know myself what made the
blamed thing work. What I told you is what the scientists said, near
as I remember. Now me—I'm like Edison. I do it and let everybody else
worry over 'why.'"
  
 
  "The only thing you ever did was the polarizer," Joyce snapped.
"And then you spent everything you got from it on those fool
perpetual-motion machines and those crazy longevity schemes when any
moron would know they were impossible."
  
 
  Grampa squinted at her sagely. "That's what they said about the gravity
polarizer before I invented it."
  
 
  "But you don't really know why it works," Junior persisted.
  
 
  "Well, no," Grampa admitted. "Actually I was just fiddling around with
some coils when one of them took off. Went right through the ceiling,
dragging a battery behind it. I guess it's still going. Ought to be out
near the Horsehead Nebula by now. Luckily, I remembered how I'd wound
it."
  
 
  "Why won't the ship work then, if you know so much?" Joyce demanded
ironically.
  
 
  "Well, now," Grampa said in bafflement, "it rightly should, you know."
  
