Leaping to one side, impervious to the fall of the dancer, he avoided
the murderous rush of the Martian youth, then he wheeled swiftly and
planted a sledge-hammer blow in that most vulnerable spot of all
Martians, the spot just below their narrow, wasp-like waist, and as the
Martian half-doubled over, he lefted him with a short jab to the chin
that staggered and all but dropped him.
  
 
  The Martian's violet eyes were black with fury now. He staggered back
and sucked in air, his face contorted with excruciating pain. But he
was not through. His powerful right shot like a blast straight for
Dennis' chest, striking like a piston just below the heart. Dennis took
it, flat-footed, without flinching; then he let his right ride over
with all the force at his command. It caught the Martian on the jaw and
spun him like a top, the pale, imperious face went crimson as he slowly
sagged to his knees and rolled to the impeccable mosaics of the floor.
  
 
  Dennis, breathing heavily, stood over him until the international
police arrived, and then he had the surprise of his life. Upon search,
the police found a tiny, but fatal silvery tube holstered under his
left arm-pit—an atomic-disintegrator, forbidden throughout the
interplanetary League. Only major criminals and space pirates still
without the law were known to possess them.
  
 
  "Looks like your brawl has turned out to be a piece of fool's luck,
Brooke!" The Police Lieutenant favored Dennis with a wry smile. "If
I'm not mistaken this chap's a member of Bren Koerber's pirate crew.
Who else could afford to risk his neck at the International, and have
in his possession a disintegrator? Pity we have no complete records
on that devil's crew! Anyway, we'll radio the I.S.P., perhaps they
have details on this dandy!" He eyed admiringly the priceless Martian
embroideries on the unconscious Martian's tunic, the costly border of
red, ocelandian fur, and the magnificent black
   
   acerine
   
  on his finger.
  
 
  Dennis Brooke shrugged his shoulders, shoulders that would have put to
shame the Athenian statues of another age. A faint, bitter smile curved
his generous mouth. "I'm grounded, Gillian, it'd take the capture of
Koerber himself to set me right with the I.S.P. again—you don't know
Bertram! To him an infraction of rules is a major crime. Damn Venus!"
He reached for his glass of
   
   Verbena
   
  but the table had turned over
during the struggle, and the glass was a shattered mass of gleaming
   
   Bacca-glas
   
  shards. He laughed shortly as he became conscious of the
venomous stare of the Mercurian Dancer, of the excited voices of the
guests and the emphatic disapproval of the Venusian proprietor who
was shocked at having a brawl in his ultra-expensive, ultra-exclusive
Palace.
  
 
  "Better come to Headquarters with me, Dennis," the lieutenant said
gently. "We'll say you captured him, and if he's Koerber's, the
credit's yours. A trip to Terra's what you need, Venus for you is a
hoodoo!"
  
