Peter closed the diary. "The rest you know, Robert," he said.
  
 
  "Yes," I told him. "I was that child. I am the millionth mutation you
were searching for."
  
 
  His eyes glowed suddenly in their misshapen sockets. "You are. Your
brain is as superior to mine as mine is to an anthropoid's. You solve
instinctively problems that would take our mechanical computers hours
of work. You are a superman."
  
 
  "I am without your imperfections," I said, flexing my arms.
  
 
  He rose and strode nervously over to the window. I watched him as he
stood there, outlined against the blazing galaxies. He had changed but
little in the years that I had known him. His lank gray hair straggled
over his sunken eyes; his cheeks were blobbed with excresences of
flesh; one corner of his mouth was drawn up in a perpetual grin. He had
a tiny sixth finger on his left hand.
  
 
  He turned again, and I saw the old scar on his cheek where I had once
accidentally drawn one of my talons across his face.
  
 
  "And now," he said softly, "we will go home. I've waited so
long—keeping the control chamber and the engine room locked away from
you, not telling you, even, about Earth until now—because I had to be
sure. But now, the waiting is over.
  
 
  "They're still there, I'm sure of it—the people, and the Invaders. You
can kill the Invaders, Robert."
  
 
  He looked at me, a little oddly, almost as if he had some instinctive
knowledge of what was to come. But he went on swiftly, "On Earth we
had a saying: 'Fight fire with fire.' That is the way it will be with
you. You are completely, coldly logical, just as
   
   they
   
  are. You can
understand them, and so you can conquer them."
  
 
  I said, "That is the reason why we will not go back to Earth."
  
 
  He stared at me, his jaw slack, his hands trembling. "What—what did
you say?"
  
 
  I repeated it patiently.
  
 
  "But why?" he cried, sinking down into the chair before me. In an
instant all the joy had gone out of him. I could not understand his
suffering, but I could recognize it.
  
 
  "You yourself have said it," I told him. "I am a being of logic, just
as the beings who have invaded your planet are. I do not comprehend the
things which you call hate, fear, joy and love, as they do not. If I
went to Earth, I would use your people to further my knowledge, just as
the invaders do. I would have no reason to kill the invaders. They are
more nearly kin to me than your people."
  
