Cousin Ives—now that Martin was older, he was told to call the
descendants
   
   cousin
   
  —next assumed guardianship. Ives took his
responsibilities more seriously than the others did. He even arranged
to have Martin's work shown at an art gallery. The paintings received
critical approval, but failed to evoke any enthusiasm. The modest
sale they enjoyed was mostly to interior decorators. Museums were not
interested.
  
 
  "Takes time," Ives tried to reassure him. "One day they'll be buying
your pictures, Martin. Wait and see."
  
 
  Ives was the only one of the descendants who seemed to think of Martin
as an individual. When his efforts to make contact with the other young
man failed, he got worried and decided that what Martin needed was a
change of air and scenery.
  
 
  "'Course you can't go on the Grand Tour. Your son hasn't invented
space travel yet. But we can go see this world. What's left of it.
Tourists always like ruins best, anyway."
  
 
  So he drew on the family's vast future resources and bought a yacht,
which Martin christened
   
   The Interregnum
   
  . They traveled about from sea
to ocean and from ocean to sea, touching at various ports and making
trips inland. Martin saw the civilized world—mostly in fragments; the
nearly intact semi-civilized world and the uncivilized world, much the
same as it had been for centuries. It was like visiting an enormous
museum; he couldn't seem to identify with his own time any more.
  
 
  The other cousins appeared to find the yacht a congenial head-quarters,
largely because they could spend so much time far away from the
contemporary inhabitants of the planet and relax and be themselves. So
they never moved back to land. Martin spent the rest of his life on
   
   The Interregnum
   
  . He felt curiously safer from Conrad there, although
there was no valid reason why an ocean should stop a traveler through
time.
  
 
  More cousins were in residence at once than ever before, because
they came for the ocean voyage. They spent most of their time aboard
ship, giving each other parties and playing an
   
   avant-garde
   
  form of
shuffleboard and gambling on future sporting events. That last usually
ended in a brawl, because one cousin was sure to accuse another of
having got advance information about the results.
  
 
  Martin didn't care much for their company and associated with them only
when not to have done so would have been palpably rude. And, though
they were gregarious young people for the most part, they didn't court
his society. He suspected that he made them feel uncomfortable.
  
