All day the sun seemed to blaze and erupt into the valley. Sim could
not see it, but the vivid pictorials in his parents' minds were
sufficient evidence of the nature of the day fire. The light ran like
mercury, sizzling and roasting the caves, poking inward, but never
penetrating deeply enough. It lighted the caves. It made the hollows of
the cliff comfortably warm.
  
 
  Sim fought to keep his parents young. But no matter how hard he fought
with mind and image, they became like mummies before him. His father
seemed to dissolve from one stage of oldness to another. This is what
will happen to me soon, though Sim in terror.
  
 
  Sim grew upon himself. He felt the digestive-eliminatory movements
of his body. He was fed every minute, he was continually swallowing,
feeding. He began to fit words to images and processes. Such a word was
love. It was not an abstraction, but a process, a stir of breath, a
smell of morning air, a flutter of heart, the curve of arm holding him,
the look in the suspended face of his mother. He saw the processes,
then searched behind her suspended face and there was the word, in her
brain, ready to use. His throat prepared to speak. Life was pushing
him, rushing him along toward oblivion.
  
 
  He sensed the expansion of his fingernails, the adjustments of his
cells, the profusion of his hair, the multiplication of his bones and
sinew, the grooving of the soft pale wax of his brain. His brain at
birth as clear as a circle of ice, innocent, unmarked, was, an instant
later, as if hit with a thrown rock, cracked and marked and patterned
in a million crevices of thought and discovery.
  
 
  His sister, Dark, ran in and out with other little hothouse children,
forever eating. His mother trembled over him, not eating, she had no
appetite, her eyes were webbed shut.
  
 
  "Sunset," said his father, at last.
  
 
  The day was over. The light faded, a wind sounded.
  
 
  His mother arose. "I want to see the outside world once more ... just
once more...." She stared blindly, shivering.
  
 
  His father's eyes were shut, he lay against the wall.
  
 
  "I cannot rise," he whispered faintly. "I cannot."
  
 
  "Dark!" The mother croaked, the girl came running. "Here," and Sim was
handed to the girl. "Hold to Sim, Dark, feed him, care for him." She
gave Sim one last fondling touch.
  
 
  Dark said not a word, holding Sim, her great green eyes shining wetly.
  
 
  "Go now," said the mother. "Take him out into the sunset time. Enjoy
yourselves. Pick foods, eat. Play."
  
 
  Dark walked away without looking back. Sim twisted in her grasp,
looking over her shoulder with unbelieving, tragic eyes. He cried out
and somehow summoned from his lips the first word of his existence.
  
 
  "Why...?"
  
 
  He saw his mother stiffen. "The child spoke!"
  
 
  "Aye," said his father. "Did you hear what he said?"
  
 
  "I heard," said the mother quietly.
  
 
  The last thing Sim saw of his living parents was his mother weakly,
swayingly, slowly moving across the floor to lie beside her silent
husband. That was the last time he ever saw them move.
  
 
 
  IV
  
 
  The night came and passed and then started the second day.
  
 
  The bodies of all those who had died during the night were carried in a
funeral procession to the top of a small hill. The procession was long,
the bodies numerous.
  
 
  Dark walked in the procession, holding the newly walking Sim by one
hand. Only an hour before dawn Sim had learned to walk.
  
 
  At the top of the hill, Sim saw once again the far off metal seed.
Nobody ever looked at it, or spoke of it. Why? Was there some reason?
Was it a mirage? Why did they not run toward it? Worship it? Try to get
to it and fly away into space?
  
 
  The funeral words were spoken. The bodies were placed upon the ground
where the sun, in a few minutes, would cremate them.
  
 
  The procession then turned and ran down the hill, eager to have their
few minutes of free time running and playing and laughing in the sweet
air.
  
 
  Dark and Sim, chattering like birds, feeding among the rocks, exchanged
what they knew of life. He was in his second day, she in her third.
They were driven, as always, by the mercurial speed of their lives.
  
 
  Another piece of his life opened wide.
  
 
  Fifty young men ran down from the cliffs, holding sharp stones and rock
daggers in their thick hands. Shouting, they ran off toward distant
black, low lines of small rock cliffs.
  
 
  "War!"
  
 
  The thought stood in Sim's brain. It shocked and beat at him. These men
were running to fight, to kill, over there in those small black cliffs
where other people lived.
  
 
  But why? Wasn't life short enough without fighting, killing?
  
 
  From a great distance he heard the sound of conflict, and it made his
stomach cold. "Why, Dark, why?"
  
 
  Dark didn't know. Perhaps they would understand tomorrow. Now, there
was the business of eating to sustain and support their lives. Watching
Dark was like seeing a lizard forever flickering its pink tongue,
forever hungry.
  
 
  Pale children ran on all sides of them. One beetle-like boy scuttled up
the rocks, knocking Sim aside, to take from him a particularly luscious
red berry he had found growing under an outcrop.
  
 
  The child ate hastily of the fruit before Sim could gain his feet. Then
Sim hurled himself unsteadily, the two of them fell in a ridiculous
jumble, rolling, until Dark pried them, squalling, apart.
  
 
  Sim bled. A part of him stood off, like a god, and said, "This should
not be. Children should not be this way. It is wrong!"
  
 
  Dark slapped the little intruding boy away. "Get on!" she cried.
"What's your name, bad one?"
  
 
  "Chion!" laughed the boy. "Chion, Chion, Chion!"
  
 
  Sim glared at him with all the ferocity in his small, unskilled
features. He choked. This was his enemy. It was as if he'd waited
for an enemy of person as well as scene. He had already understood
the avalanches, the heat, the cold, the shortness of life, but these
were things of places, of scene—mute, extravagant manifestations of
unthinking nature, not motivated save by gravity and radiation. Here,
now, in this stridulent Chion he recognized a thinking enemy!
  
 
  Chion darted off, turned at a distance, tauntingly crying:
  
 
  "Tomorrow I will be big enough to kill you!"
  
 
  And he vanished around a rock.
  
 
  More children ran, giggling, by Sim. Which of them would be friends,
enemies? How could friends and enemies come about in this impossible,
quick life time? There was no time to make either, was there?
  
 
  Dark, as if knowing his thoughts, drew him away. As they searched for
desired foods, she whispered fiercely in his ear. "Enemies are made
over things like stolen foods; gifts of long grasses make friends.
Enemies come, too, from opinions and thoughts. In five seconds you've
made an enemy for life. Life's so short enemies must be made quickly."
And she laughed with an irony strange for one so young, who was growing
older before her rightful time. "You must fight to protect yourself.
Others, superstitious ones, will try killing you. There is a belief, a
ridiculous belief, that if one kills another, the murderer partakes of
the life energy of the slain, and therefore will live an extra day. You
see? As long as that is believed, you're in danger."
  
 
  But Sim was not listening. Bursting from a flock of delicate girls who
tomorrow would be tall, quieter, and who day after that would gain
breasts and the next day take husbands, Sim caught sight of one small
girl whose hair was a violet blue flame.
  
 
  She ran past, brushed Sim, their bodies touched. Her eyes, white as
silver coins, shone at him. He knew then that he'd found a friend, a
love, a wife, one who'd a week from now lie with him atop the funeral
pyre as sunlight undressed their flesh from bone.
  
 
  Only the glance, but it held them in mid-motion, one instant.
  
 
  "Your name?" he shouted after her.
  
 
  "Lyte!" she called laughingly back.
  
 
  "I'm Sim," he answered, confused and bewildered.
  
 
  "Sim!" she repeated it, flashing on. "I'll remember!"
  
 
  Dark nudged his ribs. "Here,
   
   eat
   
  ," she said to the distracted boy.
"Eat or you'll never get big enough to catch her."
  
 
  From nowhere, Chion appeared, running by. "Lyte!" he mocked, dancing
malevolently along and away. "Lyte! I'll remember Lyte, too!"
  
 
  Dark stood tall and reed slender, shaking her dark ebony clouds of
hair, sadly. "I see your life before you, little Sim. You'll need
weapons soon to fight for this Lyte one. Now, hurry—the sun's coming!"
  
 
  They ran back to the caves.
  
