class="chap"/>
  
  "Split" Campbell and I brought our ship down to a quiet landing on the
summit of a mile-wide naked rock, and I turned to the telescope for a
closer view of the strange thing we had come to see.
  
 
  It shone, eighteen or twenty miles away, in the light of the late
afternoon sun. It was a long silvery serpent-like
   
   something
   
  that
crawled slowly over the planet's surface.
  
 
  There was no way of guessing how large it was, at this distance. It
might have been a rope rolled into shape out of a mountain—or a chain
of mountains. It might have been a river of bluish-gray dough that had
shaped itself into a great cable. Its diameter? If it had been a hollow
tube, cities could have flowed through it upright without bending their
skyscrapers. It was, to the eye, an endless rope of cloud oozing along
the surface of the land. No, not cloud, for it had the compactness of
solid substance.
  
 
  We could see it at several points among the low foothills. Even from
this distance we could guess that it had been moving along its course
for centuries. Moving like a sluggish snake. It followed a deep-worn
path between the nearer hills and the high jagged mountains on the
horizon.
  
 
 
   What was it?
   
 
 
  "Split" Campbell and I had been sent here to learn the answers.
Our sponsor was the well known "EGGWE" (the Earth-Galaxy Good
Will Expeditions.) We were under the EGGWE Code. We were the first
expedition to this planet, but we had come equipped with two important
pieces of advance information. The Keynes-Roy roving cameras (unmanned)
had brought back to the Earth choice items of fact about various parts
of the universe. From these photos we knew (1) that man lived on this
planet, a humanoid closely resembling the humans of the Earth; and
(2) that a vast cylindrical "rope" crawled the surface of this land,
continuously, endlessly.
  
 
  We had intentionally landed at what we guessed would be a safe distance
from the rope. If it were a living thing, like a serpent, we preferred
not to disturb it. If it gave off heat or poisonous gases or deadly
vibrations, we meant to keep our distance. If, on the other hand, it
proved to be some sort of vegetable—a vine of glacier proportions—or
a river of some silvery, creamy substance—we would move in upon it
gradually, gathering facts as we progressed. I could depend upon
"Split" to record all observable phenomena with the accuracy of
split-hairs.
  
 
  Split was working at the reports like a drudge at this very moment.
  
 
  I looked up from the telescope, expecting him to be waiting his turn
eagerly. I misguessed. He didn't even glance up from his books. Rare
young Campbell! Always a man of duty, never a man of impulse!
  
 
  "Here Campbell, take a look at the 'rope'."
  
 
  "Before I finish the reports, sir? If I recall our Code, Section Two,
Order of Duties upon Landing: A—"
  
 
  "Forget the Code. Take a look at the rope while the sun's on it.... See
it?"
  
 
  "Yes sir."
  
 
  "Can you see it's moving? See the little clouds of dust coming up from
under its belly?"
  
 
  "Yes sir. An excellent view, Captain Linden."
  
 
  "What do you think of it, Split? Ever see a sight like that before?"
  
 
  "No sir."
  
 
  "Well, what about it? Any comments?"
  
 
  Split answered me with an enthusiastic, "By gollies, sir!" Then, with
restraint, "It's precisely what I expected from the photographs, sir.
Any orders, sir?"
  
 
  "Relax, Split! That's the order. Relax!"
  
 
  "Thanks—thanks, Cap!" That was his effort to sound informal, though
coming from him it was strained. His training had given him an
exaggerated notion of the importance of dignity and discipline.
  
 
  He was naturally so conscientious it was painful. And to top it all,
his scientific habit of thought made him want to stop and weigh his
words even when speaking of casual things such as how much sugar he
required in his coffee.
  
 
  Needless to say, I had kidded him unmercifully over these traits.
Across the millions of miles of space that we had recently traveled
(our first voyage together) I had amused myself at his expense. I
had sworn that he would find, in time, that he couldn't even trim
his fingernails without calipers, or comb his hair without actually
physically splitting the hairs that cropped up in the middle of the
part. That was when I had nicknamed him "Split"—and the wide ears that
stuck out from his stubble-cut blond hair had glowed with the pink of
selfconsciousness. Plainly, he liked the kidding. But if I thought I
could rescue him from the weight of dignity and duty, I was mistaken.
  
 
  Now he had turned the telescope for a view far to the right. He paused.
  
 
  "What do you see?" I asked.
  
 
  "I cannot say definitely. The exact scientific classification of the
object I am observing would call for more detailed scrutiny—"
  
 
  "You're seeing some sort of object?"
  
 
  "Yes sir."
  
 
  "What sort of object?"
  
 
  "A living creature, sir—upright, wearing clothes—"
  
 
  "A
   
   man
   
  ?"
  
 
  "To all appearances, sir—"
  
 
  "You bounder, give me that telescope!"
  
