Cyril frowned and his companion's smile vanished, as if the contortion
of his superior's face had activated a circuit somewhere.
   
   Maybe the
little one's a robot!
   
  However, it couldn't be—a robot would be better
constructed and less interested in females than Raoul.
  
 
  "Remember," Cyril said sternly, "we must not establish undue rapport
with the native females. It tends to detract from true objectivity."
  
 
  "Yes, Cyril," Raoul said meekly.
  
 
  Cyril assumed a more cheerful aspect "I should like to give this chap
something for old times' sake. What do you suppose is the medium of
exchange here?"
  
 
 
   Money
   
  , Skkiru said to himself, but he didn't dare contribute this
piece of information, helpful though it would be.
  
 
  "How should I know?" Raoul shrugged.
  
 
  "Empathize. Get in there, old chap, and start batting."
  
 
  "Why not give him a bar of chocolate, then?" Raoul suggested grumpily.
"The language of the stomach, like the language of love, is said to be
a universal one."
  
 
  "Splendid idea! I always knew you had it in you, Raoul!"
  
 
  Skkiru accepted the candy with suitable—and entirely genuine—murmurs
of gratitude. Chocolate was found only in the most expensive of the
planet's delicacy shops—and now neither delicacy shops nor chocolate
were to be found, so, if Bbulas thought he was going to save the gift
to contribute it later to the Treasury, the "high priest" was off his
rocker.
  
 
  To make sure there would be no subsequent dispute about possession,
Skkiru ate the candy then and there. Chocolate increased the body's
resistance to weather, and never before had he had to endure so much
weather all at once.
  
 
  On Earth, he had heard, where people lived exposed to weather, they
often sickened of it and passed on—which helped to solve the problem
of birth control on so vulgarly fecund a planet. Snaddra, alas, needed
no such measures, for its population—like its natural resources—was
dwindling rapidly. Still, Skkiru thought, as he moodily munched on the
chocolate, it would have been better to flicker out on their own than
to descend to a subterfuge like this for nothing more than survival.
  
