Among the debris on the floor, he remembered, was a five-foot space-ax,
tungsten-steel blade and springy aluminum shaft.
  
 
  McCray caught it up and headed for the door. It felt good in his
gauntlets, a rewarding weight; any weapon straightens the back of the
man who holds it, and McCray was grateful for this one. With something
concrete to do he could postpone questioning. Never mind why he had
been brought here; never mind how. Never mind what he would, or could,
do next; all those questions could recede into the background of his
mind while he swung the ax and battered his way out of this poisoned
oven.
  
 
 
 
 
   Crash-clang!
   
  The double jolt ran up the shaft of the ax, through his
gauntlets and into his arm; but he was making progress, he could see
the plastic—or whatever it was—of the door. It was chipping out. Not
easily, very reluctantly; but flaking out in chips that left a white
powdery residue.
  
 
  At this rate, he thought grimly, he would be an hour getting through
it. Did he have an hour?
  
 
  But it did not take an hour. One blow was luckier than the rest; it
must have snapped the lock mechanism. The door shook and slid ajar.
McCray got the thin of the blade into the crack and pried it wide.
  
 
  He was in another room, maybe a hall, large and bare.
  
 
  McCray put the broad of his back against the broken door and pressed it
as nearly closed as he could; it might not keep the gas and heat out,
but it would retard them.
  
 
  The room was again unlighted—at least to McCray's eyes. There was not
even that pink pseudo-light that had baffled him; here was nothing
but the beam of his suit lamp. What it showed was cryptic. There were
evidences of use: shelves, boxy contraptions that might have been
cupboards, crude level surfaces attached to the walls that might have
been workbenches. Yet they were queerly contrived, for it was not
possible to guess from them much about the creatures who used them.
Some were near the floor, some at waist height, some even suspended
from the ceiling itself. A man would need a ladder to work at these
benches and McCray, staring, thought briefly of many-armed blind giants
or shapeless huge intelligent amoebae, and felt the skin prickle at the
back of his neck.
  
 
  He tapped half-heartedly at one of the closed cupboards, and was not
surprised when it proved as refractory as the door. Undoubtedly he
could batter it open, but it was not likely that much would be left of
its contents when he was through; and there was the question of time.
  
 
  But his attention was diverted by a gleam from one of the benches.
Metallic parts lay heaped in a pile. He poked at them with a
stiff-fingered gauntlet; they were oddly familiar. They were, he
thought, very much like the parts of a bullet-gun.
  
 
  In fact, they were. He could recognize barrel, chamber, trigger, even
a couple of cartridges, neatly opened and the grains of powder stacked
beside them. It was an older, clumsier model than the kind he had seen
in survival locker, on the
   
   Jodrell Bank
   
  —and abruptly wished he were
carrying now—but it was a pistol. Another trophy, like the strange
assortment in the other room? He could not guess. But the others had
been more familiar; they all have come from his own ship. He was
prepared to swear that nothing like this antique had been aboard.
  
 
  The drone began again in his ear, as it had at five-minute intervals
all along:
  
 
  "Herrell McCray, Herrell McCray, Herrell McCray, this is
   
   Jodrell Bank
   
  calling Herrell McCray...."
  
 
  And louder, blaring, then fading to normal volume as the AVC circuits
toned the signal down, another voice. A woman's voice, crying out in
panic and fear: "
   
   Jodrell Bank!
   
  Where are you? Help!"
  
 
 
  IV
  
 
  Hatcher's second in command said: "He has got through the first
survival test. In fact, he broke his way out! What next?"
  
 
  "Wait!" Hatcher ordered sharply. He was watching the new specimen and
a troublesome thought had occurred to him. The new one was female and
seemed to be in pain; but it was not the pain that disturbed Hatcher,
it was something far more immediate to his interests.
  
 
  "I think," he said slowly, "that they are in contact."
  
 
  His assistant vibrated startlement.
  
 
  "I know," Hatcher said, "but watch. Do you see? He is going straight
toward her."
  
 
  Hatcher, who was not human, did not possess truly human emotions; but
he did feel amazement when he was amazed, and fear when there was
cause to be afraid. These specimens, obtained with so much difficulty,
needed so badly, were his responsibility. He knew the issues involved
much better than any of his helpers. They could only be surprised at
the queer antics of the aliens with attached limbs and strange powers.
Hatcher knew that this was not a freak show, but a matter of life and
death. He said, musing:
  
 
  "This new one, I cannot communicate with her, but I get—almost—a
whisper, now and then. The first one, the male, nothing. But this
female is perhaps not quite mute."
  
 
  "Then shall we abandon him and work with her, forgetting the first one?"
  
 
  Hatcher hesitated. "No," he said at last. "The male is responding well.
Remember that when last this experiment was done every subject died; he
is alive at least. But I am wondering. We can't quite communicate with
the female—"
  
 
  "But?"
  
 
  "But I'm not sure that others can't."
  
