"This sort of problem wouldn't arise in our day, Martin," Raymond
commented as he took his place at the head of the table, "because,
unless one specifically feels a call to some profession or other, one
just—well, drifts along happily."
  
 
  "Ours is a wonderful world," Grania sighed at Martin. "I only wish we
could take you there. I'm sure you would like it."
  
 
  "Don't be a fool, Grania!" Raymond snapped. "Well, Martin, have you
made up your mind what you want to be?"
  
 
  Martin affected to think. "A physicist," he said, not without malice.
"Or perhaps an engineer."
  
 
  There was a loud, excited chorus of dissent. He chuckled inwardly.
  
 
  "Can't do that," Ives said. "Might pick up some concepts from us. Don't
know how; none of us knows a thing about science. But it could happen.
Subconscious osmosis, if there is such a thing. That way, you might
invent something ahead of time. And the fellow we got the plans from
particularly cautioned us against that. Changing history. Dangerous."
  
 
  "Might mess up our time frightfully," Bartholomew contributed, "though,
to be perfectly frank, I can't quite understand how."
  
 
  "I am not going to sit down and explain the whole thing to you all over
again, Bart!" Raymond said impatiently. "Well, Martin?"
  
 
  "What would you suggest?" Martin asked.
  
 
  "How about becoming a painter? Art is eternal. And quite gentlemanly.
Besides, artists are always expected to be either behind or ahead of
their times."
  
 
  "Furthermore," Ottillie added, "one more artist couldn't make much
difference in history. There were so many of them all through the ages."
  
 
  Martin couldn't hold back his question. "What was I, actually, in that
other time?"
  
 
  There was a chilly silence.
  
 
  "Let's not talk about it, dear," Lalage finally said. "Let's just be
thankful we've saved you from
   
   that
   
  !"
  
 
  So drawing teachers were engaged and Martin became a very competent
second-rate artist. He knew he would never be able to achieve first
rank because, even though he was still so young, his work was almost
purely intellectual. The only emotion he seemed able to feel was
fear—the ever-present fear that someday he would turn a corridor and
walk into a man who looked like him—a man who wanted to kill him for
the sake of an ideal.
  
 
  But the fear did not show in Martin's pictures. They were pretty
pictures.
  
