 id="chap01">
  CHAPTER I
  
 An Unsolved Mystery
  
  “Tell Judy about it,” begged Lois. “Please, Lorraine,
it can’t be as bad as it appears. There isn’t
anything that Judy can’t solve.”
  
 
  Lorraine tilted her head disdainfully. “We’re sisters
now. We’re both Farringdon-Petts and should be
loyal to each other. But you always did take Judy’s
part. She was the one who nearly spoiled our double
wedding trying to solve a mystery. I don’t believe
she’d understand—understand any better than I do.
Everyone has problems, and I’m sure Judy is no
exception.”
  
 
  “You’re right, Lorraine,” announced Judy, coming
in to serve dessert to the two friends she had invited
for lunch at Peter’s suggestion. “I do have
problems, and there are plenty of mysteries I can’t
solve.”
  
 
  “Name one,” charged Lois. “Just mention one
single spooky thing you couldn’t explain, and I’ll
believe you. I’ve seen you in action, Judy Bolton—”
  
 
  “Judy Dobbs, remember?”
  
 
  “Well, you were Judy Bolton when you solved
all those mysteries. I met you when the whole
valley below the big Roulsville dam was threatened
by flood and you solved that—”
  
 
  “That,” declared Judy, “was my brother Horace,
not me. He was the hero without even meaning to
be. He was the one who rode through town and
warned people that the flood was coming. I was off
chasing a shadow.”
  
 
  “A vanishing shadow,” Lois said with a sigh.
“What you did wasn’t easy, Judy.”
  
 
  “It didn’t need to be as hard as it was,” Judy confessed.
“I know now that keeping that promise not
to talk about the dam was a great big mistake and
could have cost lives. I should have told Arthur.”
  
 
  “Please,” Lorraine said, a pained expression clouding
her pretty face, “let’s not talk about him now.”
  
 
  “Very well,” Judy agreed. “What shall we talk
about?”
  
 
  “You,” Lois said, “and all the mysteries you’ve
solved. Maybe you were mistaken about a thing or
two before the flood, but what about the haunted
  house you moved into? You were the one who
tracked down the ghosts in the attic and the cellar
and goodness knows where all. You’ve been chasing
ghosts ever since I met you, and not one of them did
you fail to explain in some sensible, logical fashion.”
  
 
  “Before I met you,” Judy said, thinking back,
“there were plenty of them I couldn’t explain. There
was one I used to call the spirit of the fountain, but
what she was or how she spoke to me is more than
I know. If my grandparents knew, they weren’t telling.
And now they’re both dead and I can’t ask them.
They left me a lot of unsolved mysteries along with
this house. Maybe I’ll find the answers to some of
them when I finish sorting Grandma’s things. They’re
stored in one end of the attic.”
  
 
  “Another haunted attic? How thrilling!” exclaimed
Lois. “Why don’t you have another ghost party and
show up the spooks?”
  
 
  “I didn’t say the attic was haunted.”
  
 
  Judy was almost sorry she had mentioned it. She
wasn’t in the mood for digging up old mysteries,
but Lois and Lorraine insisted. It all began, she finally
told them, the summer before they met. Horace
had just started working on the paper. Judy remembered
that it was Lorraine’s father, Richard Thornton
Lee, who gave him his job with the
   
   Farringdon
Daily Herald
   
  . He had turned in some interesting
church news, convincing Mr. Lee that he had in him
  the makings of a good reporter. And so it was that
he spent the summer Judy was remembering in Farringdon
where the Farringdon-Petts had their turreted
mansion, while she had to suffer the heat and
loneliness of Dry Brook Hollow.
  
 
  Her thoughts were what had made it so hard, she
confessed now as she reviewed everything that had
happened. She just couldn’t help resenting the fact
that her parents left her every summer while they
went off on a vacation by themselves. What did they
think she would do?
  
 
  “You’ll have plenty to read,” her father had told
her. “I bought you six new books in that mystery
series you like. When they’re finished there are
plenty of short stories around. Your grandmother
never throws anything away. She has magazines she’s
saved since your mother was a girl. If you ask for
them she’ll let you have the whole stack. I know how
you love to read.”
  
 
  “I do, Dad, but if the magazines are that old—”
  
 
  Judy had stopped. She had seen her father’s tired
eyes and had realized that a busy doctor needed a
vacation much more than a schoolgirl who had too
little to do. He and Judy’s mother usually went to
the beach hotel where they had honeymooned. It
was a precious memory. Every summer Dr. Bolton
and his wife relived it. And every summer Judy
went to stay with her grandmother Smeed, who
scolded and fussed and tried to pretend she wasn’t
glad to have her.
  
 
  “You here again?” she had greeted her that summer,
and Judy hadn’t noticed her old eyes twinkling
behind her glasses. “What do you propose to do with
yourself this time?”
  
 
  “Read,” Judy had told her. “Mom and Dad say
you have a whole stack of old magazines—”
  
 
  “In the attic. Go up and look them over if you
can stand the heat.”
  
 
  Judy went, not to look over the old magazines so
much as to escape to a place where she could have a
good cry. It was the summer before her fifteenth
birthday. In another year she would have outgrown
her childish resentment of her parents’ vacation or
be grown up enough to ask them to let her have a
vacation of her own. In another year she would
be summering among the beautiful Thousand Islands
and solving a mystery to be known as the
   
   Ghost
Parade
   
  .
  
 
  “A whole parade of ghosts,” Lois would be telling
her, “and you solved everything.”
  
 
  But then she didn’t even know Lois. She had no
idea so many thrilling adventures awaited her. There
seemed to be nothing—nothing—and so the tears
came and spilled over on one of the magazines. As
Judy wiped it away she noticed that it had fallen
on a picture of a fountain.
  
 
  “A fountain with tears for water. How strange!”
she remembered saying aloud.
  
 
  Judy had never seen a real fountain. The thrill of
walking up to the door of the palatial Farringdon-Pett
mansion was still ahead of her. On the lawn a
fountain still caught and held rainbows like those
she was to see on her honeymoon at Niagara Falls.
But all that was in the future. If anyone had told
the freckled-faced, pigtailed girl that she would one
day marry Peter Dobbs, she would have laughed in
their faces.
  
 
  “That tease!”
  
 
  For then she knew Peter only as an older boy who
used to tease her and call her carrot-top until one day
she yelled back at him, “Carrot-tops are green and so
are you!”
  
 
  Peter was to win Judy’s heart when he gave her a
kitten and suggested the name Blackberry for him.
The kitten was now a dignified family cat. But the
summer Judy found the picture of a fountain and
spilled tears on it she had no kitten. She had nothing,
she confessed, not even a friend. It had helped to
pretend the fountain in the picture was filled with
all the tears lonely girls like herself had ever cried.
  
 
  “But that would make it enchanted!” she had suddenly
exclaimed. “If I could find it I’d wish—”
  
 
  A step had sounded on the stairs. Judy remembered
it distinctly. She had turned to see her grandmother
  and to hear her say in her usual abrupt fashion,
“Enchanted fountain, indeed! If you let people
know your wishes instead of muttering them to
yourself, most of them aren’t so impossible.”
  
 
  “Were they?” asked Lois.
  
 
  She and Lorraine had listened to this much of what
Judy was telling them without interruption.
  
 
  “That’s the unsolved mystery,” Judy replied.
“There weren’t any of them impossible.”
  
 
  And she went on to tell them how, the very next
day, her grandparents had taken her to a fountain
exactly like the one in the picture. It was in the center
of a deep, circular pool with steps leading up to it.
Beside the steps were smaller fountains with the
water spurting from the mouths of stone lions. Judy
had stared at them a moment and then climbed the
steps to the pool.
  
 
  “Am I dreaming?” she remembered saying aloud.
“Is this beautiful fountain real?”
  
 
  A voice had answered, although she could see no
one.
  
 
  “Make your wishes, Judy. Wish wisely. If you
shed a tear in the fountain your wishes will surely
come true.”
  
 
  “A tear?” Judy had asked. “How can I shed a
tear when I’m happy? This is a wonderful place.”
  
 
  “Shed a tear in the fountain and your wishes will
surely come true,” the voice had repeated.
  
 
  “But what is there to cry about?”
  
 
  “You found plenty to cry about back at your
grandmother’s house,” the mysterious voice had reminded
her. “Weren’t you crying on my picture up
there in the attic?”
  
 
  “Then you—you
   
   are
   
  the fountain!” Judy remembered
exclaiming. “But a fountain doesn’t speak. It
doesn’t have a voice.”
  
 
  “Wish wisely,” the voice from the fountain had
said in a mysterious whisper.
  
 
