"I've never seen any harm in Bram," said Jess. "But you know how this
town is about foreigners, especially when they're a mite addled. Bram
has blue eyes and blond hair—or did before it turned white—and he
talks just like everybody else. From a distance he seems just like an
ordinary American. But up close, you feel it. He's foreign, all right.
But we never did know where he came from."
  
 
  "How long's he lived here in Elsby?"
  
 
  "Beats me, Jimmy. You remember old Aunt Tress, used to know all about
ancestors and such as that? She couldn't remember about Mr. Bram. She
was kind of senile, I guess. She used to say he'd lived in that same
old place out on the Concord road when she was a girl. Well, she died
five years ago ... in her seventies. He still walks in town every
Wednesday ... or he did up till yesterday anyway."
  
 
  "Oh?" Tremaine stubbed out his cigarette, lit another. "What happened
then?"
  
 
  "You remember Soup Gaskin? He's got a boy, name of Hull. He's Soup all
over again."
  
 
  "I remember Soup," Tremaine said. "He and his bunch used to come in
the drug store where I worked and perch on the stools and kid around
with me, and Mr. Hempleman would watch them from over back of the
prescription counter and look nervous. They used to raise cain in the
other drug store...."
  
 
  "Soup's been in the pen since then. His boy Hull's the same kind. Him
and a bunch of his pals went out to Bram's place one night and set it
on fire."
  
 
  "What was the idea of that?"
  
 
  "Dunno. Just meanness, I reckon. Not much damage done. A car was
passing by and called it in. I had the whole caboodle locked up here
for six hours. Then the sob sisters went to work: poor little tyke
routine, high spirits, you know the line. All of 'em but Hull are back
in the streets playin' with matches by now. I'm waiting for the day
they'll make jail age."
  
 
  "Why Bram?" Tremaine persisted. "As far as I know, he never had any
dealings to speak of with anybody here in town."
  
 
  "Oh hoh, you're a little young, Jimmy," Jess chuckled. "You never knew
about Mr. Bram—the young Mr. Bram—and Linda Carroll."
  
 
  Tremaine shook his head.
  
 
  "Old Miss Carroll. School teacher here for years; guess she was retired
by the time you were playing hookey. But her dad had money, and in
her day she was a beauty. Too good for the fellers in these parts. I
remember her ridin by in a high-wheeled shay, when I was just a nipper.
Sitting up proud and tall, with that red hair piled up high. I used to
think she was some kind of princess...."
  
 
  "What about her and Bram? A romance?"
  
