The mild shocks went on—whether from projectiles or energy-charges,
would be hard to find out and it didn't matter; whatever was hitting
the
   
   Quest III's
   
  shell was doing it at velocities where the
distinction between matter and radiation practically ceases to exist.
  
 
  But that shell was tough. It was an extension of the gravitic drive
field which transmitted the engines' power equally to every atom of
the ship; forces impinging on the outside of the field were similarly
transmitted and rendered harmless. The effect was as if the vessel and
all space inside its field were a single perfectly elastic body. A
meteoroid, for example, on striking it rebounded—usually vaporized by
the impact—and the ship, in obedience to the law of equal and opposite
forces, rebounded too, but since its mass was so much greater, its
deflection was negligible.
  
 
  The people in the
   
   Quest III
   
  would have felt nothing at all of
the vicious onslaught being hurled against them, save that their
inertialess drive, at its normal thrust of two hundred gravities,
was intentionally operated at one half of one per cent efficiency to
provide the illusion of Earthly gravitation.
  
 
  One of the officers said shakily, "It's as if they've been lying in
wait for us. But why on Earth—"
  
 
  "That," said the captain grimly, "is what we have to find out. Why—on
Earth. At least, I suspect the answer's there."
  
 
  The
   
   Quest III
   
  bored steadily on through space, decelerating. Even if
one were no fatalist, there seemed no reason to stop decelerating or
change course. There was nowhere else to go and too little fuel left
if there had been; come what might, this was journey's end—perhaps
in a more violent and final way than had been anticipated. All around
wheeled the pigmy enemies, circling, maneuvering, and attacking,
always attacking, with the senseless fury of maddened hornets. The
interstellar ship bore no offensive weapons—but suddenly on one of the
vision screens a speck of light flared into nova-brilliance, dazzling
the watchers for the brief moment in which its very atoms were torn
apart.
  
 
  Knof Jr. whooped ecstatically and then subsided warily, but no one was
paying attention to him. The men on the
   
   Quest III's
   
  bridge looked
questions at each other, as the thought of help from outside flashed
into many minds at once. But Captain Llud said soberly, "It must have
caught one of their own shots, reflected. Maybe its own, if it scored
too direct a hit."
  
 
  He studied the data so far gathered. A few blurred pictures had been
got, which showed cylindrical space ships much like the
   
   Quest III
   
  ,
except that they were rocket-propelled and of far lesser size. Their
size was hard to ascertain, because you needed to know their distance
and speed—but detector-beam echoes gave the distance, and likewise, by
the Doppler method, the velocity of directly receding or approaching
ships. It was apparent that the enemy vessels were even smaller than
Gwar Den had at first supposed—not large enough to hold even one man.
Tiny, deadly hornets with a colossal sting.
  
 
  "Robot craft, no doubt," said Knof Llud, but a chill ran down his spine
as it occurred to him that perhaps the attackers weren't of human
origin. They had seen no recognizable life in the part of the galaxy
they had explored, but one of the other
   
   Quests
   
  might have encountered
and been traced home by some unhuman race that was greedy and able to
conquer.
  
