class="chap"/>
  
  2.
  
 
  If you have explored the weird life of many a planet, as I have, you
can appreciate the deep sense of excitement that comes over me when,
looking out at a new world for the first time, I see a man-like animal.
  
 
  Walking upright!
  
 
  Wearing adornments in the nature of clothing!
  
 
  I gazed, and my lungs filled with the breath of wonderment. A man!
Across millions of miles of space—a man, like the men of the Earth.
  
 
  Six times before in my life of exploration I had gazed at new realms
within the approachable parts of our universe, but never before had the
living creatures borne such wonderful resemblance to the human life of
our Earth.
  
 
  A man!
  
 
  He might have been creeping on all fours.
  
 
  He might have been skulking like a lesser animal.
  
 
  He might have been entirely naked.
  
 
  He was none of these—and at the very first moment of viewing him I
felt a kinship toward him. Oh, he was primitive in appearance—but had
my ancestors not been the same? Was this not a mirror of my own race
a million years or so ago? I sensed that my own stream of life had
somehow crossed with his in ages gone by. How? Who can ever know? By
what faded charts of the movements through the sky will man ever be
able to retrace relationships of forms of life among planets?
  
 
  "Get ready to go out and meet him, Campbell," I said. "He's a friend."
  
 
  Split Campbell gave me a look as if to say, Sir, you don't even know
what sort of animal he is, actually, much less whether he's friendly or
murderous.
  
 
  "There are some things I can sense on first sight, Campbell. Take my
word for it, he's a friend."
  
 
  "I didn't say anything, sir."
  
 
  "Good. Don't. Just get ready."
  
 
  "We're going to go
   
   out
   
  —?"
  
 
  "Yes," I said. "Orders."
  
 
  "And meet both of them?" Split was at the telescope.
  
 
  "Both?" I took the instrument from him. Both! "Well!"
  
 
  "They seem to be coming out of the ground," Split said. "I see no signs
of habitation, but apparently we've landed on top of an underground
city—though I hasten to add that this is only an hypothesis."
  
 
  "One's a male and the other's a female," I said.
  
 
  "Another hypothesis," said Split.
  
 
  The late evening sunshine gave us a clear view of our two "friends".
They were fully a mile away. Split was certain they had not seen our
ship, and to this conclusion I was in agreement. They had apparently
come up out of the barren rock hillside to view the sunset. I studied
them through the telescope while Split checked over equipment for a
hike.
  
 
  The man's walk was unhurried. He moved thoughtfully, one might
guess. His bare chest and legs showed him to be statuesque in mold,
cleanly muscled, fine of bone. His skin was almost the color of the
cream-colored robe which flowed from his back, whipping lightly in
the breeze. He wore a brilliant red sash about his middle, and this
was matched by a red headdress that came down over his shoulders as a
circular mantle.
  
 
  The girl stood several yards distant, watching him. This was some
sort of ritual, no doubt. He was not concerned with her, but with the
setting sun. Its rays were almost horizontal, knifing through a break
in the distant mountain skyline. He went through some routine motions,
his moving arms highlighted by the lemon-colored light of evening.
  
 
  The girl approached him. Two other persons appeared from somewhere back
of her.... Three.... Four.... Five....
  
 
  "Where do they come from?" Split had paused in the act of checking
equipment to take his turn at the telescope. If he had not done so, I
might not have made a discovery. The landscape was
   
   moving
   
  .
  
 
  The long shadows that I had not noticed through the telescope were a
prominent part of the picture I saw through the ship's window when I
looked out across the scene with the naked eye. The shadows were moving.
  
 
  They were tree shadows. They were moving toward the clearing where the
crowd gathered. And the reason for their movement was that the trees
themselves were moving.
  
 
  "Notice anything?" I asked Split.
  
 
  "The crowd is growing. We've certainly landed on top of a city." He
gazed. "They're coming from underground."
  
 
  Looking through the telescope, obviously he didn't catch the view of
the moving trees.
  
 
  "Notice anything else unusual?" I persisted.
  
 
  "Yes. The females—I'm speaking hypothetically—but they
   
   must
   
  be
females—are all wearing puffy white fur ornaments around their elbows.
I wonder why?"
  
 
  "You haven't noticed the trees?"
  
 
  "The females are quite attractive," said Split.
  
 
  I forgot about the moving trees, then, and took over the telescope.
Mobile trees were not new to me. I had seen similar vegetation on other
planets—"sponge-trees"—which possessed a sort of muscular quality. If
these were similar, they were no doubt feeding along the surface of the
slope below the rocky plateau. The people in the clearing beyond paid
no attention to them.
  
 
  I studied the crowd of people. Only the leader wore the brilliant garb.
The others were more scantily clothed. All were handsome of build. The
lemon-tinted sunlight glanced off the muscular shoulders of the males
and the soft curves of the females.
  
 
  "Those furry elbow ornaments on the females," I said to Split,
"they're for protection. The caves they live in must be narrow, so
they pad their elbows."
  
 
  "Why don't they pad their shoulders? They don't have anything on their
shoulders."
  
 
  "Are you complaining?"
  
 
  We became fascinated in watching, from the seclusion of our ship. If we
were to walk out, or make any sounds, we might have interrupted their
meeting. Here they were in their native ritual of sunset, not knowing
that people from another world watched. The tall leader must be making
a speech. They sat around him in little huddles. He moved his arms in
calm, graceful gestures.
  
 
  "They'd better break it up!" Split said suddenly. "The jungles are
moving in on them."
  
 
  "They're spellbound," I said. "They're used to sponge-trees. Didn't you
ever see moving trees?"
  
 
  Split said sharply, "Those trees are marching! They're an army under
cover. Look!"
  
 
  I saw, then. The whole line of advancing vegetation was camouflage for
a sneak attack. And all those natives sitting around in meeting were as
innocent as a flock of sitting ducks. Split Campbell's voice was edged
with alarm. "Captain! Those worshippers—how can we warn them? Oh-oh!
Too late. Look!"
  
 
  All at once the advancing sponge-trees were tossed back over the heads
of the savage band concealed within. They were warriors—fifty or more
of them—with painted naked bodies. They dashed forward in a wide
semicircle, swinging crude weapons, bent on slaughter.
  
