Two hours later, Chip was still following the bright pinpoint of
scarlet which marked the course of his quarry.
  
 
  In the time that had elapsed since their take-off, he had told his
friends the whole story. When he told about the Lorelei, Salvation
Smith's seamy old features screwed up in a perplexed grimace. "A
woman pirate in the Belt, son? I find it hard to believe. Yet—" And
when he described the death of Johnny Haldane, anger smoldered in the
missionary's eyes, and Syd Palmer's hands knotted into tight, white
fists. Said Syd, "A man with a scar, eh? Well, we'll catch him sooner
or later. And when we do—" His tone boded no good to the man who had
slain an old and loved friend.
  
 
  "As a matter of fact," offered Salvation, "we've got him now. Any time
you say the word, Chip. We're faster than he is. We can close in on him
in five minutes."
  
 
  "I know," nodded Warren grimly. "But we won't do it—yet. I'm borrowing
a bit of Johnny's strategy. I've been plotting his course. As soon as
I'm sure of his destination, we'll take care of
   
   him
   
  . But our first
and most vital problem is to locate the Lorelei's hideaway."
  
 
  Syd said, "That's all right with me, chum. I like a good scrap as much
as the next guy. Better, maybe. But this isn't our concern, strictly
speaking. What we ought to do is report this matter to the Space
Patrol, let them take care of it."
  
 
  Salvation shook his head.
  
 
  "That's where you're mistaken, Sydney. This is very much our concern.
So much so, in fact, that we dare not make port again until it's
cleared up. I think you have forgotten that it is not the scar-faced
man who is wanted for the killing of Haldane—but Chip!"
  
 
  "B-but—" gasped Palmer—"b-but that's ridiculous! Chip and Johnny were
old buddies. Lifelong friends!"
  
 
  "Nevertheless, the circumstantial evidence indicates Chip's guilt.
Twenty men saw him standing over Johnny's dead body, with a
flame-pistol in his hand. And the barkeep heard Johnny 'arrest' Chip
and accuse him of murder!"
  
 
  Chip said ruefully, "That's right, Syd. It was only a joke, but it
backfired. The bartender thought Johnny meant it. He scooted out of
there like a bat out of Hades. I'm in it up to my neck unless we can
bring back evidence that Scarface actually did the killing. And that
may not be so easy."
  
 
  He stirred restlessly. "But we'll cross that bridge when we come to
it. Right now our job is to keep this rat in sight. We've gone farther
already than I expected we would." He turned to the old preacher.
"Where do you think we're going, Padre? Out of the Belt entirely?"
  
 
  "I've been wondering that myself, son. I don't know for sure, of
course, but it looks to me as if we're going for the Bog. If so, you'd
better keep a weather-eye peeled."
  
 
  "The Bog!" Chip had never penetrated the planetoids so deeply before,
but he knew of the Bog by hearsay. All men did. A treacherous region of
tightly packed asteroids, a mad and whirling scramble of the gigantic
rocks which, aeons ago, had been a planet. Few spacemen dared penetrate
the Bog. Of those who did dare, few returned to tell the tale. "The
Bog! Say! I'd
   
   better
   
  keep a sharp lookout!"
  
 
  He turned to the
   
   perilens
   
  once more, fastened an eye to its lens. And
then—
  
 
  "Syd!" he cried. "Salvation! Look! She—she—!"
  
 
  He pressed the plunger that transferred the
   
   perilens
   
  image to the
central viewscreen. And as he did so, a phantom filled the area which
should have revealed yawning space, gay with the spangles of a myriad
glowing orbs. The vision of an unbelievably beautiful girl, the
golden-crowned embodiment of a man's fondest dreaming, eyes wide with
an indistinguishable emotion, arms stretched wide in mute appeal.
  
 
  And from the throats of all came simultaneous recognition.
  
 
  "
   
   The Lorelei!
   
  "
  
