The Aga Kaga guffawed. "For a diplomat, you speak plainly, Retief. Have
another drink." He poured, eyeing Georges. "What of M. Duror? How does
he feel about it?"
  
 
  Georges took a thoughtful swallow of whiskey. "Not bad," he said. "But
not quite good enough to cover the odor of goats."
  
 
  The Aga Kaga snorted. "I thought the goats were overdoing it a bit
myself," he said. "Still, the graybeards insisted. And I need their
support."
  
 
  "Also," Georges said distinctly, "I think you're soft. You lie around
letting women wait on you, while your betters are out doing an honest
day's work."
  
 
  The Aga Kaga looked startled. "Soft? I can tie a knot in an iron bar
as big as your thumb." He popped a grape into his mouth. "As for the
rest, your pious views about the virtues of hard labor are as childish
as my advisors' faith in the advantages of primitive plumbing. As for
myself, I am a realist. If two monkeys want the same banana, in the end
one will have it, and the other will cry morality. The days of my years
are numbered, praise be to God. While they last, I hope to eat well,
hunt well, fight well and take my share of pleasure. I leave to others
the arid satisfactions of self-denial and other perversions."
  
 
  "You admit you're here to grab our land, then," Georges said. "That's
the damnedest piece of bare-faced aggression—"
  
 
  "Ah, ah!" The Aga Kaga held up a hand. "Watch your vocabulary, my
dear sir. I'm sure that 'justifiable yearnings for territorial
self-realization' would be more appropriate to the situation. Or
possibly 'legitimate aspirations, for self-determination of formerly
exploited peoples' might fit the case. Aggression is, by definition,
an activity carried on only by those who have inherited the mantle of
Colonial Imperialism."
  
 
  "Imperialism! Why, you Aga Kagans have been the most notorious
planet-grabbers in Sector history, you—you—"
  
 
  "Call me Stanley." The Aga Kaga munched a grape. "I merely face the
realities of popular folk-lore. Let's be pragmatic; it's a matter of
historical association. Some people can grab land and pass it off
lightly as a moral duty; others are dubbed imperialist merely for
holding onto their own. Unfair, you say. But that's life, my friends.
And I shall continue to take every advantage of it."
  
 
  "We'll fight you!" Georges bellowed. He took another gulp of whiskey
and slammed the glass down. "You won't take this world without a
struggle!"
  
 
  "Another?" the Aga Kaga said, offering the bottle. Georges glowered as
his glass was filled. The Aga Kaga held the glass up to the light.
  
 
  "Excellent color, don't you agree?" He turned his eyes on Georges.
  
 
  "It's pointless to resist," he said. "We have you outgunned and
outmanned. Your small nation has no chance against us. But we're
prepared to be generous. You may continue to occupy such areas as we do
not immediately require until such time as you're able to make other
arrangements."
  
 
  "And by the time we've got a crop growing out of what was bare rock,
you'll be ready to move in," the Boyar Chef d'Regime snapped. "But
you'll find that we aren't alone!"
  
