Jess rocked his chair back on two legs, looked at the ceiling,
frowning. "This would ha' been about nineteen-oh-one. I was no more'n
eight years old. Miss Linda was maybe in her twenties—and that made
her an old maid, in those times. The word got out she was setting
her cap for Bram. He was a good-looking young feller then, over six
foot, of course, broad backed, curly yellow hair—and a stranger to
boot. Like I said, Linda Carroll wanted nothin to do with the local
bucks. There was a big shindy planned. Now, you know Bram was funny
about any kind of socializing; never would go any place at night. But
this was a Sunday afternoon and someways or other they got Bram down
there; and Miss Linda made her play, right there in front of the town,
practically. Just before sundown they went off together in that fancy
shay. And the next day, she was home again—alone. That finished off
her reputation, as far as the biddies in Elsby was concerned. It was
ten years 'fore she even landed the teaching job. By that time, she was
already old. And nobody was ever fool enough to mention the name Bram
in front of her."
  
 
  Tremaine got to his feet. "I'd appreciate it if you'd keep your ears
and eyes open for anything that might build into a lead on this, Jess.
Meantime, I'm just a tourist, seeing the sights."
  
 
  "What about that gear of yours? Didn't you say you had some kind of
detector you were going to set up?"
  
 
  "I've got an oversized suitcase," Tremaine said. "I'll be setting it up
in my room over at the hotel."
  
 
  "When's this bootleg station supposed to broadcast again?"
  
 
  "After dark. I'm working on a few ideas. It might be an infinitely
repeating logarithmic sequence, based on—"
  
 
  "Hold it, Jimmy. You're over my head." Jess got to his feet. "Let me
know if you want anything. And by the way—" he winked broadly—"I
always did know who busted Soup Gaskin's nose and took out his front
teeth."
  
 
 
  II
  
 
  Back in the street, Tremaine headed south toward the Elsby Town
Hall, a squat structure of brownish-red brick, crouched under yellow
autumn trees at the end of Sheridan Street. Tremaine went up the
steps and past heavy double doors. Ten yards along the dim corridor,
a hand-lettered cardboard sign over a black-varnished door said
"MUNICIPAL OFFICE OF RECORD." Tremaine opened the door and went in.
  
 
  A thin man with garters above the elbow looked over his shoulder at
Tremaine.
  
 
  "We're closed," he said.
  
 
  "I won't be a minute," Tremaine said. "Just want to check on when the
Bram property changed hands last."
  
 
  The man turned to Tremaine, pushing a drawer shut with his hip. "Bram?
He dead?"
  
 
  "Nothing like that. I just want to know when he bought the place."
  
 
  The man came over to the counter, eyeing Tremaine. "He ain't going to
sell, mister, if that's what you want to know."
  
 
  "I want to know when he bought."
  
 
  The man hesitated, closed his jaw hard. "Come back tomorrow," he said.
  
 
  Tremaine put a hand on the counter, looked thoughtful. "I was hoping
to save a trip." He lifted his hand and scratched the side of his jaw.
A folded bill opened on the counter. The thin man's eyes darted toward
it. His hand eased out, covered the bill. He grinned quickly.
  
 
  "See what I can do," he said.
  
 
  It was ten minutes before he beckoned Tremaine over to the table where
a two-foot-square book lay open. An untrimmed fingernail indicated a
line written in faded ink:
  
 
  "May 19. Acreage sold, One Dollar and other G&V consid. NW Quarter
Section 24, Township Elsby. Bram. (see Vol. 9 & cet.)"
  
 
  "Translated, what does that mean?" said Tremaine.
  
 
  "That's the ledger for 1901; means Bram bought a quarter section on the
nineteenth of May. You want me to look up the deed?"
  
 
  "No, thanks," Tremaine said. "That's all I needed." He turned back to
the door.
  
 
  "What's up, mister?" the clerk called after him. "Bram in some kind of
trouble?"
  
 
  "No. No trouble."
  
 
  The man was looking at the book with pursed lips. "Nineteen-oh-one,"
he said. "I never thought of it before, but you know, old Bram must be
dern near to ninety years old. Spry for that age."
  
 
  "I guess you're right."
  
 
  The clerk looked sideways at Tremaine. "Lots of funny stories about
old Bram. Useta say his place was haunted. You know; funny noises and
lights. And they used to say there was money buried out at his place."
  
 
  "I've heard those stories. Just superstition, wouldn't you say?"
  
 
  "Maybe so." The clerk leaned on the counter, assumed a knowing look.
"There's one story that's not superstition...."
  
 
  Tremaine waited.
  
 
  "You—uh—paying anything for information?"
  
 
  "Now why would I do that?" Tremaine reached for the door knob.
  
 
  The clerk shrugged. "Thought I'd ask. Anyway—I can swear to this.
Nobody in this town's ever seen Bram between sundown and sunup."
  
