The big drum topped with a metallic coolie's hat had started out as a
neutralizer for radioactivity. Now I didn't know what to call it.
  
 
  The AEC had found burying canisters of hot rubbish in the desert or
in the Gulf had eventually proved unsatisfactory. Earth tremors or
changes of temperature split the tanks in the ground, causing leaks.
The undersea containers rusted and corroded through the time, poisoning
fish and fishermen.
  
 
  Through the SBA I had been awarded a subcontract to work on the
problem. The ideal solution would be to find a way to neutralize
radioactive emanations, alpha, beta, X et cetera. (No, my dear, et
cetera rays aren't any more dangerous than the rest.) But this is
easier written than done.
  
 
  Of course, getting energy to destroy energy without producing energy or
matter is a violation of the maxim of the conservation of energy. But
I didn't let that stop me—any more than I would have let the velocity
of light put any limitations on a spacecraft engine had I been engaged
to work on one. You can't allow other people's ideas to tie you hand
and foot. There are some who tell me, however, that my refusal to honor
such time-tested cliches is why I only have a small private laboratory
owned by myself, my late wife's father and the bank, instead of
working in the vast facilities of Bell, Du Pont, or General Motors. To
this, I can only smile and nod.
  
 
  But even refusing to be balked by conservative ideas, I failed.
  
 
  I could not neutralize radioactivity. All I had been able to do (by a
basic disturbance in the electromagnetogravitational co-ordinant system
for Earth-Sun) was to reduce the mass of the radioactive matter.
  
 
  This only concentrated the radiations, as in boiling contaminated
water. It did make the hot stuff vaguely easier to handle, but it was
no breakthrough on the central problem.
  
 
  Now, in the middle of this, I was supposed to find a way to get rid of
some damned bodies for Carmen.
  
 
  Pressed for time and knowing the results wouldn't have to be so
precise or carefully defined for a racketeer as for the United States
government, I began experimenting.
  
 
  I cut corners.
  
 
  I bypassed complete safety circuits.
  
 
  I put dangerous overloads on some transformers and doodled with the
wiring diagrams. If I got some kind of passable incinerator I would be
happy.
  
 
  I turned the machine on.
  
 
  The lights popped out.
  
 
  There were changes that should be made before I tried that again, but
instead I only found a larger fuse for a heavier load and jammed that
in the switchbox.
  
 
  I flipped my machine into service once again. The lights flickered and
held.
  
 
  The dials on my control board told me the story. It was hard to take.
  
 
  But there it was.
  
 
  The internal Scale showed zero.
  
 
  I had had a slightly hot bar of silver alloy inside. It was completely
gone. Mass zero. The temperature gauge showed that there had been
no change in centigrade reading that couldn't be explained by the
mechanical operation of the machine itself. There had been no sudden
discharge of electricity or radioactivity. I checked for a standard
anti-gravity effect but there was none. Gravity inside the cylinder had
gone to zero but never to minus.
  
 
  I was at last violating conservation of energy—not by successfully
inverting the cube of the ionization factor, but by destroying mass ...
by simply making it cease to exist with no cause-and-effect side
effects.
  
 
  I knew the government wouldn't be interested, since I couldn't explain
how my device worked. No amount of successful demonstration could ever
convince anybody with any scientific training that it actually did work.
  
 
  But I shrewdly judged that Tony Carmen wouldn't ask an embarrassing
"how" when he was incapable of understanding the explanation.
  
