For several minutes, we sampled the different foods. Every one had a
distinctive flavor, comparable to that of a fruit or vegetable on Earth.
  
 
  Kane lifted a brown bottle to his lips, took a huge gulp and almost
choked.
  
 
  "Whiskey!"
  
 
  "My masters realized your race would develop intoxicants and tried to
create a comparable one," the machine explained.
  
 
  I selected a brown bottle and sampled the liquid. "A little stronger
than our own," I informed the machine.
  
 
  We drank until Kane was staggering about the room, shouting insults at
the alien race and the mechanical voice that seemed to be everywhere.
He beat his fist against a wall until blood trickled from bruised
knuckles.
  
 
  "Please don't hurt yourself," the machine pleaded.
  
 
  "
   
   Why?
   
  " Kane screamed at the ceiling. "Why should you care?"
  
 
  "My masters will be displeased with me if you arrive in a damaged
condition."
  
 
  Kane banged his head against a bulkhead; an ugly bruise formed rapidly.
"Shtop me, then!"
  
 
  "I can't. My masters created no way for me to restrain or contact you
other than use of your language."
  
 
  It took fully fifteen minutes to drag Kane to his sleeping compartment.
  
 
  After I left Kane in his wife's care, I went to the adjoining room and
stretched out on the soft floor beside Verana.
  
 
  I tried to think of some solution. We were locked in an alien ship at
the start of a six months' journey to a strange planet. We had no tools
or weapons.
  
 
  Solution? I doubted if two dozen geniuses working steadily for years
could think of one!
  
 
  I wondered what the alien race was like. Intelligent, surely: They had
foreseen our conquest of space flight when we hadn't even invented
the wheel. That thought awed me—somehow they had analyzed our brains
thousands of years ago and calculated what our future accomplishments
would be.
  
 
  They had been able to predict our scientific development, but they
hadn't been able to tell how our civilization would develop. They were
curious, so they had left an enormously elaborate piece of bait on the
Moon.
  
 
  The aliens were incredibly more advanced than ourselves. I couldn't
help thinking,
   
   And to a rabbit in a snare, mankind must seem
impossibly clever
   
  .
  
 
  I decided to ask the machine about its makers in the "morning."
  
