"That would have been a mistake," said Retief. "The Aga Kagans are
tough customers. They're active on half a dozen worlds at the moment.
They've been building up for this push for the last five years. A
show of resistance by you Boyars without Corps backing would be an
invitation to slaughter—with the excuse that you started it."
  
 
  "So what are we going to do? Sit here and watch these goat-herders take
over our farms and fisheries?"
  
 
  "Those goat-herders aren't all they seem. They've got a first-class
modern navy."
  
 
  "I've seen 'em. They camp in goat-skin tents, gallop around on
animal-back, wear dresses down to their ankles—"
  
 
  "The 'goat-skin' tents are a high-polymer plastic, made in the same
factory that turns out those long flowing bullet-proof robes you
mention. The animals are just for show. Back home they use helis and
ground cars of the most modern design."
  
 
  The Chef d'Regime chewed his cigar.
  
 
  "Why the masquerade?"
  
 
  "Something to do with internal policies, I suppose."
  
 
  "So we sit tight and watch 'em take our world away from us. That's what
I get for playing along with you, Retief. We should have clobbered
these monkeys as soon as they set foot on our world."
  
 
  "Slow down, I haven't finished yet. There's still the Note."
  
 
  "I've got plenty of paper already. Rolls and rolls of it."
  
 
  "Give diplomatic processes a chance," said Retief. "The Note hasn't
even been delivered yet. Who knows? We may get surprising results."
  
 
  "If you expect me to supply a runner for the purpose, you're out of
luck. From what I hear, he's likely to come back with his ears stuffed
in his hip pocket."
  
 
  "I'll deliver the Note personally," Retief said. "I could use a couple
of escorts—preferably strong-arm lads."
  
 
  The Chef d'Regime frowned, blew out a cloud of smoke. "I wasn't kidding
about these Aga Kagans," he said. "I hear they have some nasty habits.
I don't want to see you operated on with the same knives they use to
skin out the goats."
  
 
  "I'd be against that myself. Still, the mail must go through."
  
 
  "Strong-arm lads, eh? What have you got in mind, Retief?"
  
 
  "A little muscle in the background is an old diplomatic custom," Retief
said.
  
 
  The Chef d'Regime stubbed out his cigar thoughtfully. "I used to be a
pretty fair elbow-wrestler myself," he said. "Suppose I go along...?"
  
 
  "That," said Retief, "should lend just the right note of solidarity to
our little delegation." He hitched his chair closer. "Now, depending on
what we run into, here's how we'll play it...."
  
 
 
  II
  
 
  Eight miles into the rolling granite hills west of the capital, a
black-painted official air-car flying the twin flags of Chief of State
and Terrestrial Minister skimmed along a foot above a pot-holed road.
Slumped in the padded seat, the Boyar Chef d'Regime waved his cigar
glumly at the surrounding hills.
  
 
  "Fifty years ago this was bare rock," he said. "We've bred special
strains of bacteria here to break down the formations into soil, and we
followed up with a program of broad-spectrum fertilization. We planned
to put the whole area into crops by next year. Now it looks like the
goats will get it."
  
 
  "Will that scrubland support a crop?" Retief said, eyeing the
lichen-covered knolls.
  
 
  "Sure. We start with legumes and follow up with cereals. Wait until you
see this next section. It's an old flood plain, came into production
thirty years ago. One of our finest—"
  
 
  The air-car topped a rise. The Chef dropped his cigar and half rose,
with a hoarse yell. A herd of scraggly goats tossed their heads among a
stand of ripe grain. The car pulled to a stop. Retief held the Boyar's
arm.
  
 
  "Keep calm, Georges," he said. "Remember, we're on a diplomatic
mission. It wouldn't do to come to the conference table smelling of
goats."
  
 
  "Let me at 'em!" Georges roared. "I'll throttle 'em with my bare hands!"
  
 
  A bearded goat eyed the Boyar Chef sardonically, jaw working. "Look at
that long-nosed son!" The goat gave a derisive bleat and took another
mouthful of ripe grain.
  
 
  "Did you see that?" Georges yelled. "They've trained the son of a—"
  
 
  "Chin up, Georges," Retief said. "We'll take up the goat problem along
with the rest."
  
 
  "I'll murder 'em!"
  
 
  "Hold it, Georges. Look over there."
  
 
  A hundred yards away, a trio of brown-cloaked horsemen topped a rise,
paused dramatically against the cloudless pale sky, then galloped
down the slope toward the car, rifles bobbing at their backs, cloaks
billowing out behind. Side by side they rode, through the brown-golden
grain, cutting three narrow swaths that ran in a straight sweep from
the ridge to the air-car where Retief and the Chef d'Regime hovered,
waiting.
  
 
  Georges scrambled for the side of the car. "Just wait 'til I get my
hands on him!"
  
 
  Retief pulled him back. "Sit tight and look pleased, Georges. Never
give the opposition a hint of your true feelings. Pretend you're a goat
lover—and hand me one of your cigars."
  
 
  The three horsemen pulled up in a churn of chaff and a clatter of
pebbles. Georges coughed, batting a hand at the settling dust. Retief
peeled the cigar unhurriedly, sniffed, at it and thumbed it alight. He
drew at it, puffed out a cloud of smoke and glanced casually at the
trio of Aga Kagan cavaliers.
  
 
  "Peace be with you," he intoned in accent-free Kagan. "May your shadows
never grow less."
  
