At the same moment came a plea from the enchantress of space through
a second medium. For no reason anyone could explain, the ship's
   
   telaudio
   
  wakened to life; over it came to their ears the actual words
of the girl:
  
 
  "
   
   Help! Oh, help! Can anyone hear me? Help
   
  —"
  
 
  Even though he knew this to be only a ruse, a deliberate, dastardly
trap set for the unwary, Chip Warren's pulse leaped in hot response to
that desperate plea. Even with the warning of Johnny Haldane fresh in
his memory, some gallantry deep within him spurred him to the aid of
this lovely vision. Here was a woman a man could live for, fight for,
   
   die
   
  for! A woman like no other in the universe.
  
 
  Then common sense came to his rescue. He wrenched his gaze from the
tempting shadow, cried: "Kill that wavelength! Tune the lens on
another beam, Syd!"
  
 
  Palmer, bedazzled but obedient, spun the dial of the
   
   perilens
   
  .
Despite his vastly improved science Man had never yet succeeded in
devising a transparent medium through which to view the void wherein
he soared; the
   
   perilens
   
  was a device which translated impinging
light-waves into a picture of that which lay outside the ship's hull.
When or where electrical disturbances existed in space, its frequency
could be changed for greater clarity. This was what Syd now attempted.
  
 
  But to no avail! For it mattered not which cycle he tuned to—the
image persisted. Still on the viewscreen that pleading figure
beckoned piteously. And still the cabin rang to the prayers of that
heart-tugging voice:
  
 
  "
   
   Help! Oh, help! Can anyone hear me? Help
   
  —"
  
 
  Gone, now, was any fascination that thrilling vision might previously
have held for Chip Warren. Understanding of their plight dawned coldly
upon him, and his brow became dark with anger.
  
 
  "
   
   We're blanketed!
   
  Flying blind! Salvation, radio a general alarm!
Syd, jazz the hypos to max. Shift trajectory to fourteen-oh-three North
and loft ... fire No. 3 jet...."
  
 
  He had hurled himself into the bucket-shaped pilot's seat; now
his fingers played the controls like those of a mad organist. The
   
   Chickadee
   
  groaned from prow to stern, trembled like a tortured thing
as he thrust it into a rising spiral.
  
 
  It was a desperate chance he was taking. Increasing his speed thus, it
was certain he would be spotted by the man he had been following; the
flaming jets of the
   
   Chickadee
   
  must form a crimson arch against black
space visible for hundreds—thousands!—of miles. Nor was there any way
of knowing what lay in the path Chip thus blindly chose. Titanic death
might loom on every side. But they had to fight clear of this spot of
blindness, clear their instruments....
  
 
  And then it came! A jarring concussion that smashed against the prow
of the
   
   Chickadee
   
  like a battering ram. Chip flew headlong out of his
bucket to spreadeagle on the heaving iron floor. He heard, above the
grinding plaint of shattered steel the bellowing prayer of Salvation
Smith:
  
 
  "We've crashed! 'Into Thy hands, O Lord of old—'"
  
 
  Then Syd's angry cry, "Crashed, hell! He's smashed us with a
tractor-blast!"
  
 
  Chip stared at his companion numbly.
  
 
  "But—but that's impossible! We're plated with ek! A tractor-cannon
couldn't hurt us—"
  
 
  "
   
   Half-plated!
   
  " howled Syd savagely. "And those damn fools started
working from the stern of the
   
   Chickadee
   
  ! We're vulnerable up front,
and that's where he got us! In a minute this can will be leaking like a
sieve. I'll get out bulgers. Hold 'er to her course, Chip!"
  
 
  He dove for the lockers wherein were hung the space-suits, tore them
hastily from their hangers. Chip again spun the
   
   perilens
   
  vernier. No
good! No space ... no stars ... just a beautiful phantom crying them to
certain doom. By now he was aware that from a dozen sprung plates air
was seeping, but he fought down despair. While there remained hope, a
man had to keep on fighting.
  
 
  He scrambled back into the bucket-seat, experimented with controls that
answered sluggishly. Salvation had sprung to the rotor-gun, was now
angrily jerking its lanyard, lacing the void with death-dealing bursts
that had no mark. The old man's eyes were brands of fire, his white
hair clung wetly to his forehead. His rage was terrible to behold.
  
 
  "'Yes, truly shall I destroy them!'" he cried, "'who loose their
stealth upon me like a thief from the night—'"
  
 
  Then suddenly there came a second and more frightful blow. The
straining
   
   Chickadee
   
  stopped as though pole-axed by a gigantic fist.
Stopped and shuddered and screamed in metal agony. This time inertia
flung Chip headlong, helpless, into the control racks. Brazen studs
took the impact of his body; crushing pain banded about his temples,
and a red wetness ran into his eyes, blurring and blinding him, burning.
  
 
  For an instant there flamed before him a universe of incandescent
stars, weaving, shimmering, merging. The vision of a woman whose hair
was a golden glory....
  
 
  After that—nothing!
  
