Bruce watched them go, away and up and around the immediate face of
the mountain in the bleak cold of the Martian morning. He watched them
disappear behind a high ledge, tied together with plastic rope like
convicts.
  
 
  He stayed by the radio. He lost track of time and didn't care much
if he did. Sometimes he took a heavy sedative and slept. The sedative
prevented the dreams. He had an idea that the dreams might be so
pleasant that he wouldn't wake up. He wanted to listen to Terrence as
long as the captain had anything to say. It was nothing but curiosity.
  
 
  At fifteen thousand feet, Terrence reported only that they were
climbing.
  
 
  At twenty thousand feet, Terrence said, "We're still climbing, and
that's all I can report, Bruce. It's worth coming to Mars for—to
accept a challenge like this!"
  
 
  At twenty-five thousand feet, Terrence reported, "We've put on oxygen
masks. Jacobs and Drexel have developed some kind of altitude sickness
and we're taking a little time out. It's a magnificent sight up here. I
can imagine plenty of tourists coming to Mars one of these days, just
to climb this mountain! Mt. Everest is a pimple compared with this!
What a feeling of power, Bruce!"
  
 
  From forty thousand feet, Terrence said, "We gauged this mountain
at forty-five thousand. But here we are at forty and there doesn't
seem to be any top. We can see up and up and the mountain keeps on
going. I don't understand how we could have made such an error in our
computations. I talked with Burton. He doesn't see how a mountain this
high could still be here when the rest of the planet has been worn so
smooth."
  
 
  And then from fifty-three thousand feet, Terrence said with a voice
that seemed slightly strained: "No sign of any of the crew of the other
four ships yet. Ten in each crew, that makes fifty. Not a sign of any
of them so far, but then we seem to have a long way left to climb—"
  
 
  Bruce listened and noted and took sedatives and opened cans of food
concentrates. He smoked and ate and slept. He had plenty of time. He
had only time and the dreams which he knew he could utilize later to
take care of the time.
  
 
  From sixty thousand feet, Terrence reported, "I had to shoot Anhauser
a few minutes ago! He was dissenting. Hear that, Bruce? One of my most
dependable men. We took a vote. A mere formality, of course, whether
we should continue climbing or not. We knew we'd all vote to keep on
climbing. And then Anhauser dissented. He was hysterical. He refused
to accept the majority decision. 'I'm going back down!' he yelled.
So I had to shoot him. Imagine a man of his apparent caliber turning
anti-democratic like that! This mountain will be a great tester for
us in the future. We'll test everybody, find out quickly who the
weaklings are."
  
 
  Bruce listened to the wind. It seemed to rise higher and higher.
Terrence, who had climbed still higher, was calling. "Think of it! What
a conquest! No man's ever done a thing like this. Like Stromberg says,
it's symbolic! We can build spaceships and reach other planets, but
that's not actual physical conquest. We feel like gods up here. We can
see what we are now. We can see how it's going to be—"
  
 
  Once in a while Terrence demanded that Bruce say something to prove he
was still there taking down what Terrence said. Bruce obliged. A long
time passed, the way time does when no one cares. Bruce stopped taking
the sedatives finally. The dreams came back and became, somehow, more
real each time. He needed the companionship of the dreams.
  
 
  It was very lonely sitting there without the dreams, with nothing but
Terrence's voice ranting excitedly on and on. Terrence didn't seem real
any more; certainly not as real as the dreams.
  
