Martin was never left alone for a minute. He wasn't allowed to play
with the other kids in the new neighborhood. Not that their parents
would have let them, anyway. The adults obviously figured that if
a one-car family hired private tutors for their kid, there must be
something pretty wrong with him. So Martin and Ninian were just as
conspicuous as before. But he didn't tip her off. She was grown up; she
was supposed to know better than he did.
  
 
  He lived well. He had food to eat that he'd never dreamed of before,
warm clothes that no one had ever worn before him. He was surrounded by
more luxury than he knew what to do with.
  
 
  The furniture was the latest New Grand Rapids African modern. There
were tidy, colorful Picasso and Braque prints on the walls. And every
inch of the floor was modestly covered by carpeting, though the walls
were mostly unabashed glass. There were hot water and heat all the time
and a freezer well stocked with food—somewhat erratically chosen, for
Ninian didn't know much about meals.
  
 
  The non-glass part of the house was of neat, natural-toned wood, with a
neat green lawn in front and a neat parti-colored garden in back.
  
 
  Martin missed the old neighborhood, though. He missed having other
kids to play with. He even missed his mother. Sure, she hadn't given
him enough to eat and she'd beaten him up so hard sometimes that she'd
nearly killed him—but then there had also been times when she'd hugged
and kissed him and soaked his collar with her tears. She'd done all
she could for him, supporting him in the only way she knew how—and if
respectable society didn't like it, the hell with respectable society.
  
 
  From Ninian and her cousins, there was only an impersonal kindness.
They made no bones about the fact that they were there only to carry
out a rather unpleasant duty. Though they were in the house with him,
in their minds and in their talk they were living in another world—a
world of warmth and peace and plenty where nobody worked, except in the
government service or the essential professions. And they seemed to
think even that kind of job was pretty low-class, though better than
actually doing anything with the hands.
  
 
  In their world, Martin came to understand, nobody worked with hands;
everything was done by machinery. All the people ever did was wear
pretty clothes and have good times and eat all they wanted. There was
no devastation, no war, no unhappiness, none of the concomitants of
normal living.
  
 
  It was then that Martin began to realize that either the whole lot of
them were insane, or what Ninian had told him at first was the truth.
They came from the future.
  
