And from the door, an icy voice said, "Yes, colonel?"
  
 
  The colonel and his captains wheeled, stared and saluted. "Oh,
general," the colonel said. "I was just—"
  
 
  "I know," the brigadier said, stepping into the room. "I've been
listening to you. And I thought I suggested that everybody leave the
sergeant and his staff alone."
  
 
  "But, general, I—"
  
 
  The general showed the colonel his back and motioned Andy into his
chair. He glanced to Bettijean and a smile warmed his wedge face.
"Corporal, were you speaking just then as a woman or as a soldier?"
  
 
  Crimson erupted into Bettijean's face and her tight laugh said many
things. She shrugged. "Both I guess."
  
 
  The general waved her to a chair and, oblivious of the colonel, pulled
up a chair for himself. The last trace of humor drained from his face
as he leaned elbows on the desk. "Andy, this is even worse than we had
feared."
  
 
  Andy fumbled for a cigarette and Bettijean passed him a match. A
captain opened his mouth to speak, but the colonel shushed him.
  
 
  "I've just come from Intelligence," the general said. "We haven't had
a report—nothing from our agents, from the Diplomatic Corps, from the
civilian newspapermen—not a word from any Iron Curtain country for a
day and half. Everybody's frantic. The last item we had—it was a
coded message the Reds'd tried to censor—was an indication of
something big in the works."
  
 
  "A day and half ago," Andy mused. "Just about the time we knew we had
an epidemic. And about the time they knew it."
  
 
  "It could be just propaganda," Bettijean said hopefully, "proving that
they could cripple us from within."
  
 
  The general nodded. "Or it could be the softening up for an all-out
effort. Every American base in the world is alerted and every
serviceman is being issued live ammunition. If we're wrong, we've
still got an epidemic and panic that could touch it off. If we're
right ... well, we've got to know. What can you do?"
  
 
  Andy dropped his haggard face into his hands. His voice came through
muffled. "I can sit here and cry." For an eternity he sat there,
futility piling on helplessness, aware of Bettijean's hand on his arm.
He heard the colonel try to speak and sensed the general's movement
that silenced him.
  
 
  Suddenly he sat upright and slapped a palm down on the desk. "We'll
find your answers, sir. All we ask is co-operation."
  
 
  The general gave both Andy and Bettijean a long, sober look, then
launched himself from the chair. Pivoting, he said, "Colonel, you and
your captains will be stationed by that switchboard out there. For the
duration of this emergency, you will take orders only from the
sergeant and the corporal here."
  
 
  "But, general," the colonel wailed, "a noncom? I'm assigned—"
  
 
  The general snorted. "Insubordination cannot be tolerated—unless you
find a two-star general to outrank me. Now, as I said before, let's
get out of here and let these people work."
  
