The stern, white haired I.S.P. Commander behind the immense Aluminil
desk, frowned slightly as Dennis Brooke entered. He eyed the six foot
four frame of the Captain before him with a mixture of feelings, as
if uncertain how to begin. Finally, he sighed as if, having come to a
decision, he were forcing himself to speak:
  
 
  "Sit down, Dennis. I've sent for you, despite your grounding, for
two reasons. The first one you already know—your capture of one of
Koerber's henchmen—has given us a line as to his present orbit of
piracy, and the means of a check on his activities. But that's not
really why I've brought you here." He frowned again as if what he had
to say were difficult indeed.
  
 
  "Marla Starland, your fiancee, accepted an assignment we offered her—a
delicate piece of work here on Terra that only a very beautiful, and
very clever young lady could perform. And," he paused, grimacing,
"somewhere between Venus and Terra, the interplanetary spacer bringing
her and several other passengers, began to send distress signals.
Finally, we couldn't contact the ship any more. It is three days
overdue. All passengers, a cargo of radium from Venus worth untold
millions, the spacer itself—seem to have vanished."
  
 
  Dennis Brooke's space-tanned features had gone pale. His large hazel
eyes, fringed with auburn lashes, too long for a man, were bright slits
that smouldered. He stood silent, his hands clenched at his sides,
while something cold and sharp seemed to dig at his heart with cruel
precision.
  
 
  "Marla!" He breathed at last. The thought of Marla in the power
of Koerber sent a wave of anguish that seared through him like an
atom-blast.
  
 
  "Commander," Dennis said, and his rich baritone voice had depths of
emotion so great that they startled Commander Bertram himself—and
that grizzled veteran of the I.S.P., had at one time or another known
every change of torture that could possibly be wrung on a human soul.
"Commander, give me one ...
   
   one
   
  chance at that spawn of unthinkable
begetting! Let me try, and I promise you ..." in his torture, Dennis
was unconsciously banging a knotted fist on the chaste, satiny surface
of the priceless desk, "I promise you that I will either bring you
Koerber, or forfeit my life!"
  
 
  Commander Bertram nodded his head. "I brought you here for that
purpose, son. We have reached a point in our war with Koerber, where
the last stakes must be played ... and the last stake is death!"
  
 
  He reached over and flipped up the activator on a small telecast set
on his desk; instantly the viso-screen lighted up. "You'll now see
a visual record of all we know about the passenger spacer that left
Venus with passengers and cargo, as far as we could contact the vessel
in space. This, Dennis," the Commander emphasized his words, "is your
chance to redeem yourself!" He fell silent, while the viso-screen began
to show a crowded space port on Venus, and a gigantic passenger spacer
up-tilted in its cradle.
  
