"The Boyars needed some co-operation sixty years ago," Retief said.
"They tried to get the Aga Kagans to join in and help them beat
back some of the saurian wild life that liked to graze on people.
The Corps didn't like the idea. They wanted to see an undisputed
anti-Concordiatist enclave. The Aga Kagans didn't want to play, either.
But now that the world is tamed, they're moving in."
  
 
  "The exigencies of diplomacy require a flexible policy—"
  
 
  "I want a firm assurance of Corps support to take back to Flamme,"
Retief said. "The Boyars are a little naive. They don't understand
diplomatic triple-speak. They just want to hold onto the homes they've
made out of a wasteland."
  
 
  "I'm warning you, Retief!" the Under-Secretary snapped, leaning
forward, wattles quivering. "Corps policy with regard to Flamme
includes no inflammatory actions based on outmoded concepts. The Boyars
will have to accommodate themselves to the situation!"
  
 
  "That's what I'm afraid of," Retief said. "They're not going to sit
still and watch it happen. If I don't take back concrete evidence of
Corps backing, we're going to have a nice hot little shooting war on
our hands."
  
 
  The Under-Secretary pushed out his lips and drummed his fingers on the
desk.
  
 
  "Confounded hot-heads," he muttered. "Very well, Retief. I'll go along
to the extent of a Note; but positively no further."
  
 
  "A Note? I was thinking of something more like a squadron of Corps
Peace Enforcers running through a few routine maneuvers off Flamme."
  
 
  "Out of the question. A stiffly worded Protest Note is the best I can
do. That's final."
  
 
  Back in the corridor, Magnan turned to Retief. "When will you learn
not to argue with Under-Secretaries? One would think you actively
disliked the idea of ever receiving a promotion. I was astonished
at the Under-Secretary's restraint. Frankly, I was stunned when he
actually agreed to a Note. I, of course, will have to draft it." Magnan
pulled at his lower lip thoughtfully. "Now, I wonder, should I view
with deep concern an act of open aggression, or merely point out an
apparent violation of technicalities...."
  
 
  "Don't bother," Retief said. "I have a draft all ready to go."
  
 
  "But how—?"
  
 
  "I had a feeling I'd get paper instead of action," Retief said. "I
thought I'd save a little time all around."
  
 
  "At times, your cynicism borders on impudence."
  
 
  "At other times, it borders on disgust. Now, if you'll run the Note
through for signature, I'll try to catch the six o'clock shuttle."
  
 
  "Leaving so soon? There's an important reception tonight. Some of our
biggest names will be there. An excellent opportunity for you to join
in the diplomatic give-and-take."
  
 
  "No, thanks. I want to get back to Flamme and join in something mild,
like a dinosaur hunt."
  
 
  "When you get there," said Magnan, "I hope you'll make it quite clear
that this matter is to be settled without violence."
  
 
  "Don't worry. I'll keep the peace, if I have to start a war to do it."
  
