The violence of this thought evacuated his bowels. Eight days. Eight
   
   short
   
  days. It was wrong, impossible, but a fact. Even while in his
mother's flesh some racial knowledge had told him he was being formed
rapidly, shaped and propelled out swiftly.
  
 
  Birth was quick as a knife. Childhood was over in a flash. Adolescence
was a sheet of lightning. Manhood was a dream, maturity a myth, old age
an inescapably quick reality, death a swift certainty.
  
 
  Eight days from now he'd stand half-blind, withering, dying, as his
father now stood, staring uselessly at his own wife and child.
  
 
  This day was an eighth part of his total life! He must enjoy every
second of it. He must search his parents' thoughts for knowledge.
  
 
 
   Because in a few hours they'd be dead.
   
 
 
  This was so impossibly unfair. Was this all of life? In his prenatal
state hadn't he dreamed of
   
   long
   
  lives, valleys not of blasted stone
but green foliage and temperate clime? Yes! And if he'd dreamed then
there must be truth in the visions. How could he seek and find the long
life? Where? And how could he accomplish a life mission that huge and
depressing in eight short, vanishing days?
  
 
  How had his people gotten into such a condition?
  
 
  As if at a button pressed, he saw an image. Metal seeds, blown across
space from a distant green world, fighting with long flames, crashing
on this bleak planet. From their shattered hulls tumble men and women.
  
 
  When? Long ago. Ten thousand days. The crash victims hid in the cliffs
from the sun. Fire, ice and floods washed away the wreckage of the
huge metal seeds. The victims were shaped and beaten like iron upon
a forge. Solar radiations drenched them. Their pulses quickened,
two hundred, five hundred, a thousand beats a minute. Their skins
thickened, their blood changed. Old age came rushing. Children were
born in the caves. Swifter, swifter, swifter the process. Like all this
world's wild life, the men and women from the crash lived and died in a
week, leaving children to do likewise.
  
 
  So this is life, thought Sim. It was not spoken in his mind, for
he knew no words, he knew only images, old memory, an awareness, a
telepathy that could penetrate flesh, rock, metal. So I'm the five
thousandth in a long line of futile sons? What can I do to save myself
from dying eight days from now? Is there escape?
  
 
  His eyes widened, another image came to focus.
  
 
  Beyond this valley of cliffs, on a low mountain lay a perfect,
unscarred metal seed. A metal ship, not rusted or touched by the
avalanches. The ship was deserted, whole, intact. It was the only ship
of all these that had crashed that was still a unit, still usable. But
it was so far away. There was no one in it to help. This ship, then, on
the far mountain, was the destiny toward which he would grow. There was
his only hope of escape.
  
 
  His mind flexed.
  
 
  In this cliff, deep down in a confinement of solitude, worked a handful
of scientists. To these men, when he was old enough and wise enough, he
must go. They, too, dreamed of escape, of long life, of green valleys
and temperate weathers. They, too, stared longingly at that distant
ship upon its high mountain, its metal so perfect it did not rust or
age.
  
 
  The cliff groaned.
  
 
  Sim's father lifted his eroded, lifeless face.
  
 
  "Dawn's coming," he said.
  
 
 
  II
  
 
  Morning relaxed the mighty granite cliff muscles. It was the time of
the Avalanche.
  
 
  The tunnels echoed to running bare feet. Adults, children pushed with
eager, hungry eyes toward the outside dawn. From far out, Sim heard
a rumble of rock, a scream, a silence. Avalanches fell into valley.
Stones that had been biding their time, not quite ready to fall, for
a million years let go their bulks, and where they had begun their
journey as single boulders they smashed upon the valley floor in a
thousand shrapnels and friction-heated nuggets.
  
 
  Every morning at least one person was caught in the downpour.
  
 
  The cliff people dared the avalanches. It added one more excitement to
their lives, already too short, too headlong, too dangerous.
  
 
  Sim felt himself seized up by his father. He was carried brusquely down
the tunnel for a thousand yards, to where the daylight appeared. There
was a shining insane light in his father's eyes. Sim could not move. He
sensed what was going to happen. Behind his father, his mother hurried,
bringing with her the little sister, Dark. "Wait! Be careful!" she
cried to her husband.
  
 
  Sim felt his father crouch, listening.
  
 
  High in the cliff was a tremor, a shivering.
  
 
  "Now!" bellowed his father, and leaped out.
  
 
  An avalanche fell down at them!
  
 
  Sim had accelerated impressions of plunging walls, dust, confusion. His
mother screamed! There was a jolting, a plunging.
  
 
  With one last step, Sim's father hurried him forward into the day. The
avalanche thundered behind him. The mouth of the cave, where mother and
Dark stood back out of the way, was choked with rubble and two boulders
that weighed a hundred pounds each.
  
 
  The storm thunder of the avalanche passed away to a trickle of sand.
Sim's father burst out into laughter. "Made it! By the Gods! Made it
alive!" And he looked scornfully at the cliff and spat. "Pagh!"
  
 
  Mother and sister Dark struggled through the rubble. She cursed her
husband. "Fool! You might have killed Sim!"
  
 
  "I may yet," retorted the father.
  
 
  Sim was not listening. He was fascinated with the remains of an
avalanche afront of the next tunnel. A blood stain trickled out from
under a rise of boulders, soaking into the ground. There was nothing
else to be seen. Someone else had lost the game.
  
 
  Dark ran ahead on lithe, supple feet, naked and certain.
  
 
  The valley air was like a wine filtered between mountains. The heaven
was a restive blue; not the pale scorched atmosphere of full day, nor
the bloated, bruised black-purple of night, a-riot with sickly shining
stars.
  
 
  This was a tide pool. A place where waves of varying and violent
temperatures struck, receded. Now the tide pool was quiet, cool, and
its life moved abroad.
  
 
  Laughter! Far away, Sim heard it. Why laughter? How could any of his
people find time for laughing? Perhaps later he would discover why.
  
 
  The valley suddenly blushed with impulsive color. Plant-life, thawing
in the precipitant dawn, shoved out from most unexpected sources. It
flowered as you watched. Pale green tendrils appeared on scoured rocks.
Seconds later, ripe globes of fruit twitched upon the blade-tips.
Father gave Sim over to mother and harvested the momentary, volatile
crop, thrust scarlet, blue, yellow fruits into a fur sack which hung at
his waist. Mother tugged at the moist new grasses, laid them on Sim's
tongue.
  
 
  His senses were being honed to a fine edge. He stored knowledge
thirstily. He understood love, marriage, customs, anger, pity, rage,
selfishness, shadings and subtleties, realities and reflections. One
thing suggested another. The sight of green plant life whirled his mind
like a gyroscope, seeking balance in a world where lack of time for
explanations made a mind seek and interpret on its own. The soft burden
of food gave him knowledge of his system, of energy, of movement. Like
a bird newly cracking its way from a shell, he was almost a unit,
complete, all-knowing. Heredity had done all this for him. He grew
excited with his ability.
  
