"This is it," Chip said softly. "You want me to keep an eye on who
comes down the passage?"
  
 
  Retief nodded, opened the door and stepped into the cabin. The captain
looked up from his desk, then jumped up.
  
 
  "What do you think you're doing, busting in here?"
  
 
  "I hear you're planning a course change, Captain."
  
 
  "You've got damn big ears."
  
 
  "I think we'd better call in at Jorgensen's."
  
 
  "You do, huh?" the captain sat down. "I'm in command of this vessel,"
he said. "I'm changing course for Alabaster."
  
 
  "I wouldn't find it convenient to go to Alabaster," Retief said. "So
just hold your course for Jorgensen's."
  
 
  "Not bloody likely."
  
 
  "Your use of the word 'bloody' is interesting, Captain. Don't try to
change course."
  
 
  The captain reached for the mike on his desk, pressed the key.
  
 
  "Power Section, this is the captain," he said. Retief reached across
the desk, gripped the captain's wrist.
  
 
  "Tell the mate to hold his present course," he said softly.
  
 
  "Let go my hand, buster," the captain snarled. Eyes on Retief's, he
eased a drawer open with his left hand, reached in. Retief kneed the
drawer. The captain yelped and dropped the mike.
  
 
  "You busted it, you—"
  
 
  "And one to go," Retief said. "Tell him."
  
 
  "I'm an officer of the Merchant Service!"
  
 
  "You're a cheapjack who's sold his bridge to a pack of back-alley
hoods."
  
 
  "You can't put it over, hick."
  
 
  "Tell him."
  
 
  The captain groaned and picked up the mike. "Captain to Power Section,"
he said. "Hold your present course until you hear from me." He dropped
the mike and looked up at Retief.
  
 
  "It's eighteen hours yet before we pick up Jorgensen Control. You going
to sit here and bend my arm the whole time?"
  
 
  Retief released the captain's wrist and turned to the door.
  
 
  "Chip, I'm locking the door. You circulate around, let me know what's
going on. Bring me a pot of coffee every so often. I'm sitting up with
a sick friend."
  
 
  "Right, Mister. Keep an eye on that jasper; he's slippery."
  
 
  "What are you going to do?" the captain demanded.
  
 
  Retief settled himself in a chair.
  
 
  "Instead of strangling you, as you deserve," he said, "I'm going to
stay here and help you hold your course for Jorgensen's Worlds."
  
 
  The captain looked at Retief. He laughed, a short bark.
  
 
  "Then I'll just stretch out and have a little nap, farmer. If you feel
like dozing off sometime during the next eighteen hours, don't mind me."
  
 
  Retief took out the needler and put it on the desk before him.
  
 
  "If anything happens that I don't like," he said, "I'll wake you up.
With this."
  
