 
  THE EXPENDABLES
  
 
  BY JIM HARMON
  
 
  It was just a little black box,
   
  useful for getting rid of things.
   
  Trouble was, it worked too well!
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Worlds of If Science Fiction, May 1962.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  "You see my problem, Professor?" Tony Carmen held his pinkly manicured,
flashily ringed hands wide.
  
 
  I saw his problem and it was warmly embarrassing.
  
 
  "Really, Mr. Carmen," I said, "this isn't the sort of thing you discuss
with a total stranger. I'm not a doctor—not of medicine, anyway—or a
lawyer."
  
 
  "They can't help me. I need an operator in your line."
  
 
  "I work for the United States government. I can't become involved in
anything illegal."
  
 
  Carmen smoothed down the front of his too-tight midnight blue suit and
touched the diamond sticking in his silver tie. "You can't, Professor
Venetti? Ever hear of the Mafia?"
  
 
  "I've heard of it," I said uneasily. "An old fraternal organization
something like the Moose or Rosicrucians, founded in Sicily. It
allegedly controls organized crime in the U.S. But that is a
responsibility-eluding myth that honest Italian-Americans are stamping
out. We don't even like to see the word in print."
  
 
  "I can understand
   
   honest
   
  Italian-Americans feeling that way. But guys
like me know the Mafia is still with it. We can put the squeeze on
marks like you pretty easy."
  
 
  You don't have to tell even a third generation American about the
Mafia. Maybe that was the trouble. I had heard too much and for too
long. All the stories I had ever heard about the Mafia, true or false,
built up an unendurable threat.
  
 
  "All right, I'll try to help you, Carmen. But ... that is, you didn't
kill any of these people?"
  
 
  He snorted. "I haven't killed anybody since early 1943."
  
 
  "Please," I said weakly. "You needn't incriminate yourself with me."
  
 
  "I was in the Marines," Carmen said hotly. "Listen, Professor, these
aren't no Prohibition times. Not many people get made for a hit these
days. Mother, most of these bodies they keep ditching at my club
haven't been murdered by anybody. They're accident victims. Rumbums
with too much anti-freeze for a summer's day, Spanish-American War vets
going to visit Teddy in the natural course of events. Harry Keno just
stows them at my place to embarrass me. Figures to make me lose my
liquor license or take a contempt before the Grand Jury."
  
 
  "I don't suppose you could just go to the police—" I saw the answer in
his eyes. "No. I don't suppose you could."
  
 
  "I told you once, Professor, but I'll tell you again. I have to get rid
of these bodies they keep leaving in my kitchen. I can take 'em and
throw them in the river, sure. But what if me or my boys are stopped en
route by some tipped badge?"
  
 
  "Quicklime?" I suggested automatically.
  
 
  "What are you talking about? Are you sure you're some kind of
scientist? Lime doesn't do much to a stiff at all. Kind of putrifies
them like...."
  
 
  "I forgot," I admitted. "I'd read it in so many stories I'd forgotten
it wouldn't work. And I suppose the furnace leaves ashes and there's
always traces of hair and teeth in the garbage disposal... An
interesting problem, at that."
  
 
  "I figured you could handle it," Carmen said, leaning back comfortably
in the favorite chair of my bachelor apartment. "I heard you were
working on something to get rid of trash for the government."
  
 
  "That," I told him, "is restricted information. I subcontracted that
work from the big telephone laboratories. How did you find it out?"
  
 
  "Ways, Professor, ways."
  
 
  The government did want me to find a way to dispose of
wastes—radioactive wastes. It was the most important problem any
country could have in this time of growing atomic industry. Now a
small-time gangster was asking me to use this research to help him
dispose of hot corpses. It made my scientific blood seethe. But the
shadow of the Black Hand cooled it off.
  
 
  "Maybe I can find something in that area of research to help you," I
said. "I'll call you."
  
 
  "Don't take too long, Professor," Carmen said cordially.
  
