But now there was a spy in the elevator.
  
 
  When I thought of how deeply he had penetrated our defenses, and of how
many others there might be, still penetrating, I shuddered. The walls
were our safeguards only so long as all potential enemies were on the
other side of them.
  
 
  I sat shaken, digesting this news, until suddenly I remembered Linda.
  
 
  I leaped to my feet, reading from my watch that it was now ten-fifteen.
I dashed once more from the apartment and down the hall to the
elevator, praying that the spy had been captured by now and that Linda
would agree with me that a spy in the elevator was good and sufficient
reason for me to be late.
  
 
  He was still there. At least, the elevator was still out.
  
 
  I sagged against the wall, thinking dismal thoughts. Then I noticed the
door to the right of the elevator. Through that door was the stairway.
  
 
  I hadn't paid any attention to it before. No one ever uses the stairs
except adventurous young boys playing cops and robbers, running up and
down from landing to landing. I myself hadn't set foot on a flight of
stairs since I was twelve years old.
  
 
  Actually, the whole idea of stairs was ridiculous. We had elevators,
didn't we? Usually, I mean, when they didn't contain spies. So what was
the use of stairs?
  
 
  Well, according to Dr. Kilbillie (a walking library of unnecessary
information), the Project had been built when there still had been such
things as municipal governments (something to do with cities, which
were more or less grouped Projects), and the local municipal government
had had on its books a fire ordinance, anachronistic even then, which
required a complete set of stairs in every building constructed in the
city. Ergo, the Project had stairs, thirty-two hundred of them.
  
 
  And now, after all these years, the stairs might prove useful after
all. It was only thirteen flights to Linda's floor. At sixteen steps a
flight, that meant two hundred and eight steps.
  
 
  Could I descend two hundred and eight steps for my true love? I could.
If the door would open.
  
 
  It would, though reluctantly. Who knew how many years it had been since
last this door had been opened? It squeaked and wailed and groaned and
finally opened half way. I stepped through to the musty, dusty landing,
took a deep breath, and started down. Eight steps and a landing, eight
steps and a floor. Eight steps and a landing, eight steps and a floor.
  
 
  On the landing between one fifty and one forty-nine, there was a
smallish door. I paused, looking curiously at it, and saw that at one
time letters had been painted on it. The letters had long since flaked
away, but they left a lighter residue of dust than that which covered
the rest of the door. And so the words could still be read, if with
difficulty.
  
 
  I read them. They said:
  
 
  EMERGENCY ENTRANCE
   
  ELEVATOR SHAFT
   
  AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL
   
  ONLY
   
  KEEP LOCKED
  
 
  I frowned, wondering immediately why this door wasn't being firmly
guarded by at least a platoon of Army men. Half a dozen possible
answers flashed through my mind. The more recent maps might simply
have omitted this discarded and unnecessary door. It might be sealed
shut on the other side. The Army might have caught the spy already.
Somebody in authority might simply have goofed.
  
 
  As I stood there, pondering these possibilities, the door opened and
the spy came out, waving a gun.
  
 
 
  III
  
 
  He couldn't have been anyone else but the spy. The gun, in the first
place. The fact that he looked harried and upset and terribly nervous,
in the second place. And, of course, the fact that he came from the
elevator shaft.
  
 
  Looking back, I think he must have been just as startled as I when we
came face to face like that. We formed a brief tableau, both of us
open-mouthed and wide-eyed.
  
 
  Unfortunately, he recovered first.
  
 
  He closed the emergency door behind him, quickly but quietly. His gun
stopped waving around and instead pointed directly at my middle. "Don't
move!" he whispered harshly. "Don't make a sound!"
  
 
  I did exactly as I was told. I didn't move and I didn't make a sound.
Which left me quite free to study him.
  
 
  He was rather short, perhaps three inches shorter than me, with a bony
high-cheekboned face featuring deepset eyes and a thin-lipped mouth. He
wore gray slacks and shirt, with brown slippers on his feet. He looked
exactly like a spy ... which is to say that he
   
   didn't
   
  look like a
spy, he looked overpoweringly ordinary. More than anything else, he
reminded me of a rather taciturn milkman who used to make deliveries to
my parents' apartment.
  
 
  His gaze darted this way and that. Then he motioned with his free hand
at the descending stairs and whispered, "Where do they go?"
  
 
  I had to clear my throat before I could speak. "All the way down," I
said.
  
 
  "Good," he said—just as we both heard a sudden raucous squealing from
perhaps four flights down, a squealing which could be nothing but the
opening of a hall door. It was followed by the heavy thud of ascending
boots. The Army!
  
 
  But if I had any visions of imminent rescue, the spy dashed them. He
said, "Where do you live?"
  
 
  "One fifty-three," I said. This was a desperate and dangerous man.
I knew my only slim chance of safety lay in answering his questions
promptly, cooperating with him until and unless I saw a chance to
either escape or capture him.
  
 
  "All right," he whispered. "Go on." He prodded me with the gun.
  
 
  And so we went back up the stairs to one fifty-three, and stopped at
the door. He stood close behind me, the gun pressed against my back,
and grated in my ear, "I'll have this gun in my pocket. If you make one
false move I'll kill you. Now, we're going to your apartment. We're
friends, just strolling along together. You got that?"
  
 
  I nodded.
  
 
  "All right. Let's go."
  
 
  We went. I have never in my life seen that long hall quite so empty as
it was right then. No one came out of any of the apartments, no one
emerged from any of the branch halls. We walked to my apartment. I
thumbed the door open and we went inside.
  
 
  Once the door was closed behind us, he visibly relaxed, sagging against
the door, his gun hand hanging limp at his side, a nervous smile
playing across his lips.
  
 
  I looked at him, judging the distance between us, wondering if I could
leap at him before he could bring the gun up again. But he must have
read my intentions on my face. He straightened, shaking his head. He
said, "Don't try it. I don't want to kill you. I don't want to kill
anybody, but I will if I have to. We'll just wait here together until
the hue and cry passes us. Then I'll tie you up, so you won't be able
to sic your Army on me too soon, and I'll leave. If you don't try any
silly heroics, nothing will happen to you."
  
 
  "You'll never get away," I told him. "The whole Project is alerted."
  
 
  "You let me worry about that," he said. He licked his lips. "You got
any chico coffee?"
  
 
  "Yes."
  
 
  "Make me a cup. And don't get any bright ideas about dousing me with
boiling water."
  
 
  "I only have my day's allotment," I protested. "Just enough for two
cups, lunch and dinner."
  
 
  "Two cups is fine," he said. "One for each of us."
  
