The great, white ship settled to Earth that was like a plain after
flood waters have drained away.
  
 
  The man and woman came out into the blazing sunlight.
  
 
  A shout, like the crashing of a thousand surfs, rose and broke over
them. The man and woman descended the gang-plank toward the officials
gathered on the platform. They glanced around at the massed field of
white faces beneath them; saw those same faces that had been turned
toward them two thousand years past; remembered the cheers and the
cries that had crashed around them then, as they and the thousand had
stood before the towering spires of the ships, before the takeoff.
  
 
  And, as then, there were no children among the milling, grasping
throng. Only the same clutching hands and voices and arms, asking for
an answer, a salvation, a happy end.
  
 
  Now the officials gathered around the man and the woman, and spoke to
them in voices of reverence.
  
 
  A microphone was thrust into Michael's hand with the whispered
admonition to tell the people of the great new life waiting for them,
open and green and moist, on a virgin planet.
  
 
  The cries of the people were slipping away and a stillness growing
like an ocean calm and, within it, the sound of the pumps, throbbing,
sucking the water from the seas.
  
 
  And then Michael's voice, "The thousand who left with us are dead. For
some time we've known the other planets in our solar system were
uninhabitable. Now we've been from one end of the galaxy to the other.
And this is what we've found.... We were given Earth. There's no place
else for us. The rest of the planets in the galaxy were given to
others. There's no place else for them. We've all had a chance to make
the best of Earth. Instead we've made the worst of it. So we're here
to stay—and die." He handed the microphone back.
  
 
  The silence did not change.
  
 
  The President grasped Michael's arm. "What're you saying?"
  
 
  A buzzing rose up from the people like that of a swarm of frightened
bees. The sea of white faces swayed and their voices began to cry. The
din and motion held, long and drawn out, with a wail now and a
fluttering beneath it.
  
 
  Michael and the woman stood above them in the center of the pale,
hovering faces of the officials.
  
 
  "Good God," said the President. "You've got to tell them what you said
isn't true!"
  
 
  "We've been searching two thousand years for a truth," said Michael.
"A thousand of us have died finding it. I've told it. That's the way
it's got to be."
  
 
  The President swayed, took the microphone in his hands.
  
 
  "There's been some mistake!" he cried. "Go back to the pumps and the
distilleries! Go back to the water vats and the gardens and the
flocks! Go back! Work and wait! We'll get the full truth to you.
Everything's going to be
   
   all right
   
  !"
  
 
  Obediently the mass of faces separated, as though they were being spun
away on a whirling disk. Michael and the woman were swallowed up, like
pebbles inside a closing hand, and carried away from the great, white
ship.
  
