The captain was on his feet instantly, but then his movements became
unhurried. Whatever it had been was past, and he had a good idea
what it had been—a meteoroid, nothing unusual in the vicinity of
the Sun, though in interstellar space and around planetless stars
such collisions were rare to the vanishing point. No harm could have
been done. The
   
   Quest III's
   
  collision armor was nonmaterial and for
practical purposes invulnerable.
  
 
  Just as he took his finger off the button that opened the door, the
intercommunication phone shrilled imperatively. Knof Llud wheeled,
frowning—surely a meteoroid impact wasn't that serious. Coincidence,
maybe—it might be Zost Relyul calling as instructed.
  
 
  He reached the phone at the moment when another, heavier jolt shook
the vessel. Llud snatched up the receiver with the speed of a scalded
cat.
  
 
  "Captain?" It was Gwar Den's voice, stammering a little. "Captain,
we're being attacked!"
  
 
  "Sound the alarm. Emergency stations." He had said it automatically,
then felt a curious detached relief at the knowledge that after all
these years he could still respond quickly and smoothly to a crisis.
There was a moment's silence, and he heard the alarm start—three
short buzzes and repeat, ringing through all the great length of the
interstellar ship. Knowing that Gwar Den was still there, he said,
"Now—attacked by what?"
  
 
  "Ships," said Gwar Den helplessly. "Five of them so far. No, there's a
sixth now." Repeated blows quivered the
   
   Quest III's
   
  framework. The
navigator said, obviously striving for calm, "They're light craft, not
fifty feet long, but they move fast. The detectors hardly had time to
show them before they opened up. Can't get a telescope beam on them
long enough to tell much."
  
 
  "If they're that small," said Knof Llud deliberately, "they can't carry
anything heavy enough to hurt us. Hold to course. I'll be right up."
  
 
  In the open doorway he almost fell over his son. Young Knof's eyes were
big; he had heard his father's words.
  
 
  "Something's happened," he judged with deadly twelve-year-old
seriousness and, without wasting time on questions, "Can I go with you,
huh, Dad?"
  
 
  Llud hesitated, said, "All right. Come along and keep out of the way."
He headed for the bridge with strides that the boy could not match.
  
 
  There were people running in the corridors, heading for their posts.
Their faces were set, scared, uncomprehending. The
   
   Quest III
   
  shuddered, again and again, under blows that must have had millions
of horsepower behind them; but it plunged on toward Earth, its mighty
engines still steadily braking its interstellar velocity.
  
 
  To a man, the ship's responsible officers were already on the bridge,
most of them breathless. To a man they looked appeal at Captain Knof
Llud.
  
 
  "Well?" he snapped. "What are they doing?"
  
 
  Gwar Den spoke. "There are thirteen of them out there now, sir, and
they're all banging away at us."
  
 
  The captain stared into the black star-strewn depths of a vision screen
where occasional blue points of light winked ominously, never twice
from the same position.
  
 
  Knof Jr. flattened himself against the metal wall and watched silently.
His young face was less anxious than his elders'; he had confidence in
his father.
  
 
  "If they had anything heavier," surmised the captain, "they'd have
unlimbered it by now. They're out to get us. But at this rate, they
can't touch us as long as our power lasts—or until they bring up some
bigger stuff."
  
