Hesitantly, Dan moved to the carrier. The bluff was all right up to a
point—but the point had just about been reached. He took his seat.
Blote moved a lever. The familiar blue glow sprang up. "Kindly direct
me, Dan," Blote demanded. "Two twenty-one Maple Street, I believe you
said."
  
 
  "I don't know the town very well," Dan said, "but Maple's over that
way."
  
 
  Blote worked levers. The carrier shot out into a ghostly afternoon sky.
Faint outlines of buildings, like faded negatives, spread below. Dan
looked around, spotted lettering on a square five-story structure.
  
 
  "Over there," he said. Blote directed the machine as it swooped
smoothly toward the flat roof Dan indicated.
  
 
  "Better let me take over now," Dan suggested. "I want to be sure to
get us to the right place."
  
 
  "Very well, Dan."
  
 
  Dan dropped the carrier through the roof, passed down through a dimly
seen office. Blote twiddled a small knob. The scene around the cage
grew even fainter. "Best we remain unnoticed," he explained.
  
 
  The cage descended steadily. Dan peered out, searching for identifying
landmarks. He leveled off at the second floor, cruised along a barely
visible corridor. Blote's eyes rolled, studying the small chambers
along both sides of the passage at once.
  
 
  "Ah, this must be the assembly area," he exclaimed. "I see the machines
employ a bar-type construction, not unlike our carriers."
  
 
  "That's right," Dan said, staring through the haziness. "This is where
they do time...." He tugged at a lever suddenly; the machine veered
left, flickered through a barred door, came to a halt. Two nebulous
figures loomed beside the cage. Dan cut the switch. If he'd guessed
wrong—
  
 
  The scene fluoresced, sparks crackling, then popped into sharp focus.
Blote scrambled out, brown eyes swivelling to take in the concrete
walls, the barred door and—
  
 
  "You!" a hoarse voice bellowed.
  
 
  "Grab him!" someone yelled.
  
 
  Blote recoiled, threshing his ambulatory members in a fruitless attempt
to regain the carrier as Manny and Fiorello closed in. Dan hauled at a
lever. He caught a last glimpse of three struggling, blue-lit figures
as the carrier shot away through the cell wall.
  
 
 
  III
  
 
  Dan slumped back against the seat with a sigh. Now that he was in the
clear, he would have to decide on his next move—fast. There was no
telling what other resources Blote might have. He would have to hide
the carrier, then—
  
 
  A low growling was coming from somewhere, rising in pitch and volume.
Dan sat up, alarmed. This was no time for a malfunction.
  
 
  The sound rose higher, into a penetrating wail. There was no sign of
mechanical trouble. The carrier glided on, swooping now over a nebulous
landscape of trees and houses. Dan covered his ears against the
deafening shriek, like all the police sirens in town blaring at once.
If the carrier stopped it would be a long fall from here. Dan worked
the controls, dropping toward the distant earth.
  
 
  The noise seemed to lessen, descending the scale. Dan slowed, brought
the carrier in to the corner of a wide park. He dropped the last few
inches and cut the switch.
  
 
  As the glow died, the siren faded into silence.
  
 
  Dan stepped from the carrier and looked around. Whatever the noise
was, it hadn't attracted any attention from the scattered pedestrians
in the park. Perhaps it was some sort of burglar alarm. But if so, why
hadn't it gone into action earlier? Dan took a deep breath. Sound or no
sound, he would have to get back into the carrier and transfer it to a
secluded spot where he could study it at leisure. He stepped back in,
reached for the controls—
  
 
  There was a sudden chill in the air. The bright surface of the dials
before him frosted over. There was a loud
   
   pop!
   
  like a flashbulb
exploding. Dan stared from the seat at an iridescent rectangle
which hung suspended near the carrier. Its surface rippled, faded
to blankness. In a swirl of frosty air, a tall figure dressed in a
tight-fitting white uniform stepped through.
  
 
  Dan gaped at the small rounded head, the dark-skinned long-nosed face,
the long, muscular arms, the hands, their backs tufted with curly
red-brown hair, the strange long-heeled feet in soft boots. A neat
pillbox cap with a short visor was strapped low over the deep-set
yellowish eyes, which turned in his direction. The wide mouth opened in
a smile which showed square yellowish teeth.
  
 
  "
   
   Alors, monsieur
   
  ," the new-comer said, bending his knees and back in
a quick bow. "
   
   Vous ete une indigine, n'est ce pas?
   
  "
  
 
  "No compree," Dan choked out "Uh ... juh no parlay Fransay...."
  
 
  "My error. This is the Anglic colonial sector, isn't it? Stupid of me.
Permit me to introduce myself. I'm Dzhackoon, Field Agent of Class
five, Inter-dimensional Monitor Service."
  
 
  "That siren," Dan said. "Was that you?"
  
 
  Dzhackoon nodded. "For a moment, it appeared you were disinclined to
stop. I'm glad you decided to be reasonable."
  
 
  "What outfit did you say you were with?" Dan asked.
  
 
  "The Inter-dimensional Monitor Service."
  
 
  "Inter-what?"
  
 
  "Dimensional. The word is imprecise, of course, but it's the best our
language coder can do, using the Anglic vocabulary."
  
 
  "What do you want with me?"
  
