 
  The Monster Maker
  
 
  By RAY BRADBURY
  
 
  "Get Gunther," the official orders read. It
   
  was to laugh! For Click and Irish were
   
  marooned on the pirate's asteroid—their only
   
  weapons a single gun and a news-reel camera.
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Planet Stories Spring 1944.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  Suddenly, it was there. There wasn't time to blink or speak or get
scared. Click Hathaway's camera was loaded and he stood there listening
to it rack-spin film between his fingers, and he knew he was getting a
damned sweet picture of everything that was happening.
  
 
  The picture of Marnagan hunched huge over the control-console,
wrenching levers, jamming studs with freckled fists. And out in the
dark of the fore-part there was space and a star-sprinkling and this
meteor coming like blazing fury.
  
 
  Click Hathaway felt the ship move under him like a sensitive animal's
skin. And then the meteor hit. It made a spiked fist and knocked the
rear-jets flat, and the ship spun like a cosmic merry-go-round.
  
 
  There was plenty of noise. Too damned much. Hathaway only knew he was
picked up and hurled against a lever-bank, and that Marnagan wasn't
long in following, swearing loud words. Click remembered hanging on to
his camera and gritting to keep holding it. What a sweet shot that had
been of the meteor! A sweeter one still of Marnagan beating hell out of
the controls and keeping his words to himself until just now.
  
 
  It got quiet. It got so quiet you could almost hear the asteroids
rushing up, cold, blue and hard. You could hear your heart kicking a
tom-tom between your sick stomach and your empty lungs.
  
 
  Stars, asteroids revolved. Click grabbed Marnagan because he was the
nearest thing, and held on. You came hunting for a space-raider and you
ended up cradled in a slab-sized Irishman's arms, diving at a hunk of
metal death. What a fade-out!
  
 
  "Irish!" he heard himself say. "Is this IT?"
  
 
  "Is this
   
   what
   
  ?" yelled Marnagan inside his helmet.
  
 
  "Is this where the Big Producer yells CUT!?"
  
 
  Marnagan fumed. "I'll die when I'm damned good and ready. And when I'm
ready I'll inform you and you can picture me profile for Cosmic Films!"
  
 
  They both waited, thrust against the shipside and held by a hand of
gravity; listening to each other's breathing hard in the earphones.
  
 
  The ship struck, once. Bouncing, it struck again. It turned end over
and stopped. Hathaway felt himself grabbed; he and Marnagan rattled
around—human dice in a croupier's cup. The shell of the ship burst,
air and energy flung out.
  
 
  Hathaway screamed the air out of his lungs, but his brain was thinking
quick crazy, unimportant things. The best scenes in life never reach
film, or an audience. Like this one, dammit! Like
   
   this
   
  one! His
brain spun, racketing like the instantaneous, flicking motions of his
camera.
  
