He crossed with the floating moon-motion to the airlock and entered,
closing the door behind him. The darkness slowly filled with air, and
the temperature inside the suit declined steadily. At the proper moment
of pressure, the inner lock slid open and Major Winship stepped into
the illuminated central area. His foot was lifted for the second step
when the floor beneath him rose and fell gently, pitching him forward,
off balance. He stumbled against the table and ended up seated beside
the radio equipment. The ground moved again.
  
 
  "Charlie! Charlie!"
  
 
  "I'm okay," Major Winship answered. "Okay! Okay!"
  
 
  "It's—"
  
 
  There was additional surface movement. The movement ceased.
  
 
  "Hey, Les, how's it look?" Capt. Wilkins asked.
  
 
  "Okay from this side. Charlie, you still okay?"
  
 
  "Okay," Major Winship said. "We told them this might happen," he added
bitterly.
  
 
  There was a wait during which everyone seemed to be holding their
breath.
  
 
  "I guess it's over," said Major Winship, getting to his feet. "Wait a
bit more, there may be an after-shock." He switched once again to the
emergency channel.
  
 
  "Is Pinov," came the supremely relaxed voice. "Help?"
  
 
  Major Winship whinnied in disgust. "
   
   Nyet!
   
  " he snarled. To the other
Americans: "Our comrades seem unconcerned."
  
 
  "Tough."
  
 
  They began to get the static for the first time. It crackled and
snapped in their speakers. They made sounds of disapproval at each
other. For a minute or two, static blanked out the communications
completely. It then abated to something in excess of normal.
  
 
  "Well," Lt. Chandler commented, "even though we didn't build this thing
to withstand a moonquake, it seems to have stood up all right."
  
 
  "I guess I was just—" Major Winship began. "Oh, hell! We're losing
pressure. Where's the markers?"
  
 
  "By the lug cabinet."
  
 
  "Got 'em," Major Winship said a moment later.
  
 
  He peeled back a marker and let it fall. Air currents whisked it away
and plastered it against a riveted seam of the dome. It pulsed as
though it were breathing and then it ruptured.
  
 
  Major Winship moved quickly to cut out the emergency air supply which
had cut in automatically with the pressure drop. "You guys wait. It's
on your right side, midway up. I'll try to sheet it."
  
 
  He moved for the plastic sheeting.
  
 
  "We've lost about three feet of calk out here," Capt. Lawler said. "I
can see more ripping loose. You're losing pressure fast at this rate."
  
 
  Major Winship pressed the sheeting over the leak. "How's that?"
  
 
  "Not yet."
  
 
  "I don't think I've got enough pressure left to hold it, now. It's
sprung a little, and I can't get it to conform over the rivet heads."
  
 
  There was a splatter of static.
  
 
  "Damn!" Major Winship said, "they should have made these things more
flexible."
  
 
  "Still coming out."
  
 
  "Best I can do." Major Winship stepped back. The sheet began slowly
to slide downward, then it fell away completely and lay limply on the
floor.
  
 
  "Come on in," he said dryly.
  
