The traditional office of Planetary Dilettante was a civil-service
job, awarded by competitive examination whenever it fell vacant to
the person who scored highest in intelligence, character and general
gloonatz. However, the tests were inadequate when it came to measuring
sense of proportion, adaptiveness and charm—and there, Skkiru felt,
was where the essential flaw lay. After all, no really effective test
would have let a person like Bbulas come out on top.
  
 
  The winner was sent to Gambrell, the nearest planet with a Terran
League University, to be given a thorough Terran-type education. No
individual on Snaddra could afford such schooling, no matter how
great his personal fortune, because the transportation costs were so
immense that only a government could afford them. That was the reason
why only one person in each generation could be chosen to go abroad at
the planet's expense and acquire enough finish to cover the rest of the
population.
  
 
  The Dilettante's official function had always been, in theory, to serve
the planet when an emergency came—and this, old Luccar, the former
President, had decided, when he and the Parliament had awakened to the
fact that Snaddra was falling into ruin, was an emergency. So he had,
after considerable soul-searching, called upon Bbulas to plan a method
of saving Snaddra—and Bbulas, happy to be in the limelight at last,
had come up with this program.
  
 
  It was not one Skkiru himself would have chosen. It was not one, he
felt, that any reasonable person would have chosen. Nevertheless, the
Bbulas Plan had been adopted by a majority vote of the Snaddrath,
largely because no one had come up with a feasible alternative and,
as a patriotic citizen, Skkiru would abide by it. He would accept the
status of beggar; it was his duty to do so. Moreover, as in the case of
the planet, there was no choice.
  
 
  But all was not necessarily lost, he told himself. Had he not, in his
anthropological viewings—though Bbulas might have been the only one
privileged to go on ethnological field trips to other planets, he was
not the only one who could use a library—seen accounts of societies
where beggarhood could be a rewarding and even responsible station in
life? There was no reason why, within the framework of the primitive
society Bbulas had created to allure Terran anthropologists, Skkiru
should not make something of himself and show that a beggar was worthy
of the high priestess's hand—which would be entirely in the Terran
primitive tradition of romance.
  
 
  "Skkiru!" Bbulas was screaming, as he spun, now that the Terrans were
out of ear- and eye-shot "Skkiru, you idiot, listen to me! What are
those ridiculous things you are wearing on your silly feet?"
  
 
  Skkiru protruded all of his eyes in innocent surprise. "Just some
old pontoons I took from a wrecked air-car once. I have a habit of
collecting junk and I thought—"
  
 
  Bbulas twirled madly in the air. "You are not supposed to think. Leave
all the thinking to me!"
  
 
  "Yes, Bbulas," Skkiru said meekly.
  
