Everyone knew what that meant. The slightest trace of magnetic material
would distort the delicately balanced cylinder of force that contained
and directed the Hoskins blast, making it suicidal to operate.
  
 
  Calmly Captain Reno voiced the thought in every mind.
  
 
  "It must be cleared. From the outside."
  
 
  Several of the men swore under their breaths. Interplanetary space
was constantly bombarded, with an intensity inverse to the prevailing
gravitation, by something called Sigma radiation. Man had never
encountered it until leaving Earth, and little was known of it
except that short exposure killed test animals and left their bodies
unpredictably altered.
  
 
  Inside the ship it was safe enough, for the sleek hull was charged with
a Kendall power-shield, impervious to nearly any Sigma concentration.
But the shielding devices in the emergency spacesuits were small
and had never been space-tested in a region of nearly equalized
gravitations.
  
 
  The man who emerged from the airlock would be flipping a coin with a
particularly unpleasant form of death.
  
 
  Many pairs of eyes turned toward Robson Hind. He was jet chief.
  
 
  "I'm assigned, not expendable," he protested hastily. "If there were
more trouble later...." His face was pasty.
  
 
  Assigned. That was the key word. Barry Barr felt a lump tightening
in his stomach as the eyes shifted to him. He had some training in
Hoskins drivers. He knew alloys and power tools. And he was riding Four
unassigned after that broken ankle had made him miss Three. He was the
logical man.
  
 
  "For the safety of the ship." That phrase, taken from the ancient
Earthbound code of the sea, had occurred repeatedly in the
indoctrination manual at Training Base. He remembered it, and
remembered further the contingent plans regarding assigned and
unassigned personnel.
  
 
  For a moment he stood indecisively, the nervous, unhumorous smile
quirking across his angular face making him look more like an untried
boy than a structural engineer who had fought his way up through some
of the toughest tropical construction camps of Earth. His lean body,
built more for quick, neatly coordinated action than brute power,
balanced handily in the zero gravity as he ran one hand through his
sandy hair in a gesture of uncertainty.
  
 
  He knew that not even the captain would order him through the airlock.
  
 
  But the members of the Five Ship Plan had been selected in part for a
sense of responsibility.
  
 
  "Nick, will you help me button up?" he asked with forced calmness.
  
 
  For an instant he thought he detected a sly gleam in Hind's eyes. But
then the jet chief was pressing forward with the others to shake his
hand.
  
 
  Rebellious reluctance flared briefly in Barry's mind. Dorothy Voorhees
had refused to make a definite promise before blasting off in Three—in
fact he hadn't even seen her during her last few days on Earth. But
still he felt he had the inside track despite Hind's money and the
brash assurance that went with it. But if Hind only were to reach Venus
alive—
  
