The maniac had returned, in full force. "All right," I said hastily.
"All right, whatever you say."
  
 
  He glowered at me a moment longer, then shouted, "Bah!" and dropped
back into the chair.
  
 
  He breathed rather heavily for a while, glaring at the floor, then
looked at me again. "All right, listen. What if I were to tell you that
I
   
   had
   
  found indications that you people were planning to attack my
Project?"
  
 
  I stared at him. "That's impossible!" I cried. "We aren't planning to
attack anybody! We just want to be left in peace!"
  
 
  "How do I know that?" he demanded.
  
 
  "It's the truth! What would we want to attack anybody for?"
  
 
  "Ah hah!" He sat forward, tensed, pointing the gun at me like a finger
again. "Now, then," he said. "If you know it doesn't make any sense for
this Project to attack any other project, then why in the world should
you think
   
   they
   
  might see some advantage in attacking
   
   you
   
  ?"
  
 
  I shook my head, dumbfounded. "I can't answer a question like that," I
said. "How do I know what they're thinking?"
  
 
  "They're human beings, aren't they?" he cried. "Like you? Like me? Like
all the other people in this mausoleum?"
  
 
  "Now, wait a minute—"
  
 
  "No!" he shouted. "You wait a minute! I want to tell you something. You
think I'm a spy. That blundering Army of yours thinks I'm a spy. That
fathead who turned me in thinks I'm a spy. But I'm
   
   not
   
  a spy, and I'm
going to tell you what I am."
  
 
  I waited, looking as attentive as possible.
  
 
  "I come," he said, "from a Project about eighty miles north of here.
I came here by foot, without any sort of radiation shield at all to
protect me."
  
 
  The maniac was back. I didn't say a word. I didn't want to set off the
violence that was so obviously in this lunatic.
  
 
  "The radiation level," he went on, "is way down. It's practically as
low as it was before the Atom War. I don't know how long it's been
that low, but I would guess about ten years, at the very least." He
leaned forward again, urgent and serious. "The world is safe out there
now. Man can come back out of the cave again. He can start building
the dreams again. And this time he can build better, because he has
the horrible example of the recent past to guide him away from the
pitfalls. There's no need any longer for the Projects."
  
 
  And that was like saying there's no need any longer for stomachs, but I
didn't say so. I didn't say anything at all.
  
 
  "I'm a trained atomic engineer," he went on. "In my project, I worked
on the reactor. Theoretically, I believed that there was a chance the
radiation Outside was lessening by now, though we had no idea exactly
how much radiation had been released by the Atom War. But I wanted
to test the theory, and the Commission wouldn't let me. They claimed
public safety, but I knew better. If the Outside were safe and the
Projects were no longer needed, then the Commission was out of a job,
and they knew it.
  
