Hatcher returned to his laboratory gloomily.
  
 
  It was just like the council to put the screws on; they had a
reputation for demanding results at any cost—even at the cost of
destroying the only thing you had that would make results possible.
  
 
  Hatcher did not like the idea of endangering the Earthman. It cannot
be said that he was emotionally involved; it was not pity or sympathy
that caused him to regret the dangers in moving too fast toward
communication. Not even Hatcher had quite got over the revolting
physical differences between the Earthman and his own people. But
Hatcher did not want him destroyed. It had been difficult enough
getting him here.
  
 
  Hatcher checked through the members that he had left with the rest of
his team and discovered that there were no immediate emergencies, so he
took time to eat. In Hatcher's race this was accomplished in ways not
entirely pleasant to Earthmen. A slit in the lower hemisphere of his
body opened, like a purse, emitting a thin, pussy, fetid fluid which
Hatcher caught and poured into a disposal trough at the side of the
eating room. He then stuffed the slit with pulpy vegetation the texture
of kelp; it closed, and his body was supplied with nourishment for
another day.
  
 
  He returned quickly to the room.
  
 
  His second in command was busy, but one of the other team workers
reported—nothing new—and asked about Hatcher's appearance before the
council. Hatcher passed the question off. He considered telling his
staff about the disappearance of the Central Masses team member, but
decided against it. He had not been told it was secret. On the other
hand, he had not been told it was not. Something of this importance was
not lightly to be gossiped about. For endless generations the threat
of the Old Ones had hung over his race, those queer, almost mythical
beings from the Central Masses of the galaxy. One brush with them, in
ages past, had almost destroyed Hatcher's people. Only by running and
hiding, bearing one of their planets with them and abandoning it—with
its population—as a decoy, had they arrived at all.
  
 
  Now they had detected mapping parties of the Old Ones dangerously near
the spiral arm of the galaxy in which their planet was located, they
had begun the Probe Teams to find some way of combating them, or of
fleeing again.
  
 
  But it seemed that the Probe Teams themselves might be betraying their
existence to their enemies—
  
 
  "Hatcher!"
  
 
  The call was urgent; he hurried to see what it was about. It was his
second in command, very excited. "What is it?" Hatcher demanded.
  
 
  "Wait...."
  
 
  Hatcher was patient; he knew his assistant well. Obviously something
was about to happen. He took the moment to call his members back to
him for feeding; they dodged back to their niches on his skin, fitted
themselves into their vestigial slots, poured back their wastes into
his own circulation and ingested what they needed from the meal he had
just taken.... "Now!" cried the assistant. "Look!"
  
 
  At what passed among Hatcher's people for a viewing console an image
was forming. Actually it was the assistant himself who formed it, not a
cathode trace or projected shadow; but it showed what it was meant to
show.
  
 
  Hatcher was startled. "Another one! And—is it a different species? Or
merely a different sex?"
  
 
  "Study the probe for yourself," the assistant invited.
  
 
  Hatcher studied him frostily; his patience was not, after all, endless.
"No matter," he said at last. "Bring the other one in."
  
 
  And then, in a completely different mood, "We may need him badly. We
may be in the process of killing our first one now."
  
 
  "Killing him, Hatcher?"
  
 
  Hatcher rose and shook himself, his mindless members floating away like
puppies dislodged from suck. "Council's orders," he said. "We've got to
go into Stage Two of the project at once."
  
 
 
  III
  
 
  Before Stage Two began, or before Herrell McCray realized it had begun,
he had an inspiration.
  
 
  The dark was absolute, but he remembered where the spacesuit had been
and groped his way to it and, yes, it had what all spacesuits had to
have. It had a light. He found the toggle that turned it on and pressed
it.
  
 
  Light. White, flaring, Earthly light, that showed everything—even
himself.
  
 
  "God bless," he said, almost beside himself with joy. Whatever that
pinkish, dancing halo had been, it had thrown him into a panic; now
that he could see his own hand again, he could blame the weird effects
on some strange property of the light.
  
 
  At the moment he heard the click that was the beginning of Stage Two.
  
 
  He switched off the light and stood for a moment, listening.
  
 
  For a second he thought he heard the far-off voice, quiet, calm and
almost hopeless, that he had sensed hours before; but then that was
gone. Something else was gone. Some faint mechanical sound that had
hardly registered at the time, but was not missing. And there was,
perhaps, a nice new sound that had not been there before; a very
faint, an almost inaudible elfin hiss.
  
 
  McCray switched the light on and looked around. There seemed to be no
change.
  
 
  And yet, surely, it was warmer in here.
  
 
  He could see no difference; but perhaps, he thought, he could smell
one. The unpleasant halogen odor from the grating was surely stronger
now. He stood there, perplexed.
  
 
  A tinny little voice from the helmet of the space suit said sharply,
amazement in its tone, "McCray, is that you? Where the devil are you
calling from?"
  
 
  He forgot smell, sound and temperature and leaped for the suit. "This
is Herrell McCray," he cried. "I'm in a room of some sort, apparently
on a planet of approximate Earth mass. I don't know—"
  
 
  "McCray!" cried the tiny voice in his ear. "Where are you? This is
   
   Jodrell Bank
   
  calling. Answer, please!"
  
 
  "I
   
   am
   
  answering, damn it," he roared. "What took you so long?"
  
 
  "Herrell McCray," droned the tiny voice in his ear, "Herrell McCray,
Herrell McCray, this is
   
   Jodrell Bank
   
  responding to your message,
acknowledge please. Herrell McCray, Herrell McCray...."
  
 
  It kept on, and on.
  
 
  McCray took a deep breath and thought. Something was wrong. Either they
didn't hear him, which meant the radio wasn't transmitting, or—no.
That was not it; they
   
   had
   
  heard him, because they were responding.
But it seemed to take them so long....
  
 
  Abruptly his face went white. Took them so long! He cast back in his
mind, questing for a fact, unable to face its implications. When was
it he called them? Two hours ago? Three?
  
 
  Did that mean—did it
   
   possibly
   
  mean—that there was a lag of an hour
or two each way? Did it, for example, mean that at the speed of his
suit's pararadio, millions of times faster than light, it took
   
   hours
   
  to get a message to the ship and back?
  
 
  And if so ... where in the name of heaven was he?
  
