The air car followed the escort down a long slope to a dry river bed
and across it, through a barren stretch of shifting sand to a green
oasis set with canopies.
  
 
  The armed escort motioned the car to a halt before an immense tent of
glistening black. Before the tent armed men lounged under a pennant
bearing a lion
   
   couchant
   
  in crimson on a field verte.
  
 
  "Get out," Blackbeard ordered. The guards eyed the visitors, their
drawn sabers catching sunlight. Retief and Georges stepped from the
car onto rich rugs spread on the grass. They followed the ferocious
gesture of the bearded man through the opening into a perfumed interior
of luminous shadows. A heavy odor of incense hung in the air, and the
strumming of stringed instruments laid a muted pattern of sound behind
the decorations of gold and blue, silver and green. At the far end of
the room, among a bevy of female slaves, a large and resplendently clad
man with blue-black hair and a clean-shaven chin popped a grape into
his mouth. He wiped his fingers negligently on a wisp of silk offered
by a handmaiden, belched loudly and looked the callers over.
  
 
  Blackbeard cleared his throat. "Down on your faces in the presence of
the Exalted One, the Aga Kaga, ruler of East and West."
  
 
  "Sorry," Retief said firmly. "My hay-fever, you know."
  
 
  The reclining giant waved a hand languidly.
  
 
  "Never mind the formalities," he said. "Approach."
  
 
  Retief and Georges crossed the thick rugs. A cold draft blew toward
them. The reclining man sneezed violently, wiped his nose on another
silken scarf and held up a hand.
  
 
  "Night and the horses and the desert know me," he said in resonant
tones. "Also the sword and the guest and paper and pen—" He
paused, wrinkled his nose and sneezed again. "Turn off that damned
air-conditioner," he snapped.
  
 
  He settled himself and motioned the bearded man to him. The two
exchanged muted remarks. Then the bearded man stepped back, ducked his
head and withdrew to the rear.
  
 
  "Excellency," Retief said, "I have the honor to present M. Georges
Duror, Chef d'Regime of the Planetary government."
  
 
  "Planetary government?" The Aga Kaga spat grape seeds on the rug. "My
men have observed a few squatters along the shore. If they're in
distress, I'll see about a distribution of goat-meat."
  
 
  "It is the punishment of the envious to grieve at anothers' plenty,"
Retief said. "No goat-meat will be required."
  
 
  "Ralph told me you talk like a page out of Mustapha ben Abdallah Katib
Jelebi," the Aga Kaga said. "I know a few old sayings myself. For
example, 'A Bedouin is only cheated once.'"
  
 
  "We have no such intentions, Excellency," Retief said. "Is it not
written, 'Have no faith in the Prince whose minister cheats you'?"
  
 
  "I've had some unhappy experiences with strangers," the Aga Kaga said.
"It is written in the sands that all strangers are kin. Still, he who
visits rarely is a welcome guest. Be seated."
  
 
 
  III
  
 
  Handmaidens brought cushions, giggled and fled. Retief and Georges
settled themselves comfortably. The Aga Kaga eyed them in silence.
  
 
 
 
  "We have come to bear tidings from the Corps Diplomatique
Terrestrienne," Retief said solemnly. A perfumed slave girl offered
grapes.
  
 
  "Modest ignorance is better than boastful knowledge," the Aga Kaga
said. "What brings the CDT into the picture?"
  
 
  "The essay of the drunkard will be read in the tavern," Retief said.
"Whereas the words of kings...."
  
 
  "Very well, I concede the point." The Aga Kaga waved a hand at the
serving maids. "Depart, my dears. Attend me later. You too, Ralph.
These are mere diplomats. They are men of words, not deeds."
  
 
  The bearded man glared and departed. The girls hurried after him.
  
 
  "Now," the Aga Kaga said. "Let's drop the wisdom of the ages and
get down to the issues. Not that I don't admire your repertoire of
platitudes. How do you remember them all?"
  
 
  "Diplomats and other liars require good memories," said Retief. "But
as you point out, small wisdom to small minds. I'm here to effect a
settlement of certain differences between yourself and the planetary
authorities. I have here a Note, which I'm conveying on behalf of the
Sector Under-Secretary. With your permission, I'll read it."
  
 
  "Go ahead." The Aga Kaga kicked a couple of cushions onto the floor,
eased a bottle from under the couch and reached for glasses.
  
 
  "The Under-Secretary for Sector Affairs presents his compliments to his
Excellency, the Aga Kaga of the Aga Kaga, Primary Potentate, Hereditary
Sheik, Emir of the—"
  
 
  "Yes, yes. Skip the titles."
  
 
  Retief flipped over two pages.
  
 
  "... and with reference to the recent relocation of persons under the
jurisdiction of his Excellency, has the honor to point out that the
territories now under settlement comprise a portion of that area,
hereinafter designated as Sub-sector Alpha, which, under terms of
the Agreement entered into by his Excellency's predecessor, and as
referenced in Sector Ministry's Notes numbers G-175846573957-b and
X-7584736 c-1, with particular pertinence to that body designated in
the Revised Galactic Catalogue, Tenth Edition, as amended, Volume
Nine, reel 43, as 54 Cygni Alpha, otherwise referred to hereinafter as
Flamme—"
  
 
  "Come to the point," the Aga Kaga cut in. "You're here to lodge a
complaint that I'm invading territories to which someone else lays
claim, is that it?" He smiled broadly, offered dope-sticks and lit one.
"Well, I've been expecting a call. After all, it's what you gentlemen
are paid for. Cheers."
  
 
  "Your Excellency has a lucid way of putting things," Retief said.
  
 
  "Call me Stanley," the Aga Kaga said. "The other routine is just to
please some of the old fools—I mean the more conservative members
of my government. They're still gnawing their beards and kicking
themselves because their ancestors dropped science in favor of alchemy
and got themselves stranded in a cultural dead end. This charade is
supposed to prove they were right all along. However, I've no time
to waste in neurotic compensations. I have places to go and deeds to
accomplish."
  
 
  "At first glance," Retief said, "it looks as though the places are
already occupied, and the deeds are illegal."
  
