The blazing disc of Sol, the minor globes of the planets, the unwinking
pinpoints of the stars, all stared with cosmic disinterest at the tiny
figure crawling along the hull. His spacesuit trapped and amplified
breathing and heartbeats into a roaring chaos that was an invitation
to blind panic, and all the while there was consciousness of the
insidiously deadly Sigma radiations.
  
 
  Barry found the debris of the meteorite, an ugly shining splotch
against the dull superceramic tube, readied his power chisel, started
cutting. Soon it became a tedious, torturingly strenuous manual task
requiring little conscious thought, and Barry's mind touched briefly on
the events that had brought him here.
  
 
  First Luna, and that had been murderous. Man had encountered Sigma
for the first time, and many had died before the Kendall-shield was
perfected. And the chemical-fueled rockets of those days had been
inherently poor.
  
 
  Hoskins semi-atomics had made possible the next step—to Mars. But men
had found Mars barren, swept clear of all life in the cataclysm that
had shattered the trans-Martian planet to form the Asteroid Belt.
  
 
  Venus, its true surface forever hidden by enshrouding mists, had been
well within one-way range. But Hoskins fuel requirements for a round
trip added up to something beyond critical mass. Impossible.
  
 
  But the Five Ship Plan had evolved, a joint enterprise of government
and various private groups. Five vessels were to go out, each fueled
to within a whiskered neutron of spontaneous detonation, manned by
specialists who, it was hoped, could maintain themselves under alien
conditions.
  
 
  On Venus the leftover fuel from all five would be transferred to
whichever ship had survived the outbound voyage in best condition.
That one would return to Earth. Permanent base or homeward voyage with
colonists crowded aboard like defeated sardines? Only time would tell.
  
 
  Barry Barr had volunteered, and because the enlightened guesses of the
experts called for men and women familiar with tropical conditions,
he had survived the rigorous weeding-out process. His duties in Venus
Colony would be to refabricate the discarded ships into whatever form
was most needed—most particularly a launching ramp—and to study
native Venusian materials.
  
 
  Dorothy Voorhees had signed on as toxicologist and dietician. When the
limited supply of Earth food ran out the Colony would be forced to
rely upon Venusian plants and animals. She would guard against subtle
delayed-action poisons, meanwhile devising ways of preparing Venusian
materials to suit Earth tastes and digestions.
  
 
  Barry had met her at Training Base and known at once that his years of
loneliness had come to an end.
  
 
  She seemed utterly independent, self-contained, completely intellectual
despite her beauty, but Barry had not been deceived. From the moment
of first meeting he had sensed within her deep springs of suppressed
emotion, and he had understood. He too had come up the hard way, alone,
and been forced to develop a shell of hardness and cold, single-minded
devotion to his work. Gradually, often unwillingly under his
insistence, her aloofness had begun to melt.
  
 
  But Robson Hind too had been attracted. He was the only son of the
business manager of the great Hoskins Corporation which carried
a considerable share in the Five Ship Plan. Dorothy's failure to
virtually fall into his arms had only piqued his desires.
  
 
  The man's smooth charm had fascinated the girl and his money had opened
to her an entirely new world of lavish nightclubs and extravagantly
expensive entertainments, but her inborn shrewdness had sensed some
factor in his personality that had made her hesitate.
  
 
  Barry had felt a distrust of Hind apart from the normal dislike of
rivalry. He had looked forward to being with Dorothy aboard Three, and
had made no secret of his satisfaction when Hind's efforts to have
himself transferred to Three also or the girl to Four had failed.
  
 
  But then a scaffold had slipped while Three was being readied, and with
a fractured ankle he had been forced to miss the ship.
  
 
  He unclipped the magnetic detector from his belt and ran it inch by
inch over the nozzle. He found one spot of metal, pinhead-sized, but
enough to cause trouble, and once more swung his power chisel into
stuttering action.
  
 
  Then it was done.
  
 
  As quickly as possible he inched back to the airlock. Turnover had to
start according to calculations.
  
