Perhaps it was the traditionally bracing effect of sea air—perhaps it
was the sheltered life—but Martin lived to be a very old man. He was a
hundred and four when his last illness came. It was a great relief when
the family doctor, called in again from the future, said there was no
hope. Martin didn't think he could have borne another year of life.
  
 
  All the cousins gathered at the yacht to pay their last respects to
their progenitor. He saw Ninian again, after all these years, and
Raymond—all the others, dozens of them, thronging around his bed,
spilling out of the cabin and into the passageways and out onto the
deck, making their usual clamor, even though their voices were hushed.
  
 
  Only Ives was missing. He'd been the lucky one, Martin knew. He had
been spared the tragedy that was going to befall these blooming young
people—all the same age as when Martin had last seen them and doomed
never to grow any older. Underneath their masks of woe, he could see
relief at the thought that at last they were going to be rid of their
responsibility. And underneath Martin's death mask lay an impersonal
pity for those poor, stupid descendants of his who had blundered so
irretrievably.
  
 
 
 
  There was only one face which Martin had never seen before. It wasn't
a strange face, however, because Martin had seen one very like it in
the looking glass when he was a young man.
  
 
  "You must be Conrad," Martin called across the cabin in a voice that
was still clear. "I've been looking forward to meeting you for some
time."
  
 
  The other cousins whirled to face the newcomer.
  
 
  "You're too late, Con," Raymond gloated for the whole generation. "He's
lived out his life."
  
 
  "But he hasn't lived out his life," Conrad contradicted. "He's lived
out the life
   
   you
   
  created for him. And for yourselves, too."
  
 
  For the first time, Martin saw compassion in the eyes of one of his
lineage and found it vaguely disturbing. It didn't seem to belong there.
  
 
  "Don't you realize even yet," Conrad went on, "that as soon as he goes,
you'll go, too—present, past, future, wherever you are, you'll go up
in the air like puffs of smoke?"
  
 
  "What do you mean?" Ninian quavered, her soft, pretty face alarmed.
  
 
  Martin answered Conrad's rueful smile, but left the explanations up to
him. It was his show, after all.
  
 
  "Because you will never have existed," Conrad said. "You have no right
to existence; it was you yourselves who watched him all the time,
so he didn't have a chance to lead a normal life, get married,
   
   have
children
   
  ...."
  
