"Alms, for the love of Ipsnadd," Skkiru chanted, as the two Terrans
descended from the ship and plowed their way through the mud to meet a
procession of young Snaddrath dressed in elaborate ceremonial costumes,
and singing a popular ballad—to which less ribald, as well as less
inspiring, words than the originals had been fitted by Bbulas, just
in case, by some extremely remote chance, the Terrans had acquired a
smattering of Snadd somewhere. Since neither party was accustomed to
navigating mud, their progress was almost imperceptible.
  
 
  "Alms, for the love of Ipsnadd," chanted Skkiru the beggar.
His teeth chattered as he spoke, for the rags he wore had been
custom-weatherbeaten for him by the planet's best tailor—now a pariah,
of course, because Snadd tailors were, naturally, metal-workers—and
the wind and the rain were joyously making their way through the
demolished wires. Never before had Skkiru been on the surface of the
planet, except to pass over, and he had actually touched it only when
taking off and landing. The Snaddrath had no means of land transport,
having previously found it unnecessary—but now both air-cars and
self-levitation were on the prohibited list as being insufficiently
primitive.
  
 
  The outside was no place for a civilized human being, particularly
in the wet season or—more properly speaking on Snaddra—the wetter
season. Skkiru's feet were soaked with mud; not that the light sandals
worn by the members of the procession appeared to be doing them much
good, either. It gave him a kind of melancholy pleasure to see that the
privileged ones were likewise trying to repress shivers. Though their
costumes were rich, they were also scanty, particularly in the case
of the females, for Earthmen had been reported by tape and tale to be
humanoid.
  
 
  As the mud clutched his toes, Skkiru remembered an idea he had once
gotten from an old sporting fictape of Terrestrial origin and had
always planned to experiment with, but had never gotten around to—the
weather had always been so weathery, there were so many other more
comfortable sports, Larhgan had wanted him to spend more of his leisure
hours with her, and so on. However, he still had the equipment, which
he'd salvaged from a wrecked air-car, in his apartment—and it was the
matter of a moment to run down, while Bbulas was looking the other way,
and get it.
  
 
  Bbulas couldn't really object, Skkiru stilled the nagging quiver in
his toe, because what could be more primitive than any form of land
transport? And even though it took time to get the things, they worked
so well that, in spite of the procession's head start, he was at the
Earth ship long before the official greeters had reached it.
  
