"We're stuck," Reba said softly. "We might as well admit it. All we can
do is set the transmitter to send out an automatic distress call—"
  
 
  "Which," Joyce interrupted, "might get picked up in a few centuries."
  
 
  "And make the best of what we've got," Reba went on, unheeding. "If we
look at it the right way, it's quite a lot. A beautiful, fertile world.
Earth gravity. The flivver—even if the polarizer won't work, there's
the resynthesizer; it will keep us in food and clothes for years. By
then, we should have a good-sized community built up, because out here
we won't have to stop with one child. We can have all the babies we
want."
  
 
  "You know the law: one child per couple," Joyce reminded her frigidly.
"You can condemn yourself to exile from civilization if you wish. Not
me."
  
 
  Junior frowned at his wife. "I believe you're actually glad it
happened."
  
 
  "I could think of worse things," Reba said.
  
 
  "I like your spunk, Reb," Grampa muttered.
  
 
  "Speaking of children," Junior said, "where's Four?"
  
 
  "Here." Four came through the airlock and trudged across the room,
carrying a curious contraption made of tripod legs supporting a
small box from which dangled a plumb bob. Behind Four, like a round,
raspberry shadow, rolled Fweep.
  
 
  "Fweep?" it queried hopefully.
  
 
  "Not now," said Four.
  
 
  "Where've you been?" Reba asked anxiously. "What've you been doing?"
  
 
  "I've been all over Fweepland," Four said wearily, "trying to locate
its center of gravity."
  
 
  "Well?" Fred prompted.
  
 
  "It shifts."
  
 
  "That's impossible," said Junior.
  
 
  "Not for Fweep," Four replied.
  
 
  "What do you mean by that?" Joyce suspiciously asked.
  
 
  "It shifted," Four explained patiently, "because Fweep kept following
me."
  
 
  "Fweep?" Junior repeated stupidly.
  
 
  "Fweep?" Fweep said eagerly.
  
 
  "He's why the flivver won't work. What Grampa invented was a linear
polarizer. Fweep is a circular polarizer. He's what makes this planet
so heavy. He's why we can't leave."
  
