He stared at the radio. He hesitated, reached out and switched on the
mike. He got through to her.
  
 
  "Hello, hello, darling," he whispered. "Marsha, can you hear me?"
  
 
  "Yes, yes. You down there, all warm and cozy, reading poetry, darling.
Where you can see both ways instead of just up and down, up and down."
  
 
  He tried to imagine where she was now as he spoke to her, how she
looked. He thought of Earth and how it had been there, years ago, with
Marsha. Things had seemed so different then. There was something of
that hope in his voice now as he spoke to her, yet not directly to her,
as he looked out the window at the naked frigid sky and the barren
rocks.
  
 "'... and there is nowhere to go from the top of a mountain,
 But down, my dear;
 And the springs that flow on the floor of the valley
 Will never seem fresh or clear
 For thinking of the glitter of the mountain water
 In the feathery green of the year....'"
  
  The wind stormed over the shelter in a burst of power, buried the sound
of his own voice.
  
 
  "Marsha, are you still there?"
  
 
  "What the devil's the idea, poetry at a time like this, or any time?"
Terrence demanded. "Listen, you taking this down? We haven't run into
any signs of the others. Six hundred thousand feet, Bruce! We feel our
destiny. We conquer the Solar System. And we'll go out and out, and
we'll climb the highest mountain, the highest mountain anywhere. We're
going up and up. We've voted on it. Unanimous. We go on. On to the
top, Bruce! Nothing can stop us. If it takes ten years, a hundred, a
thousand years, we'll find it. We'll find the top! Not the top of this
world—the top of
   
   everything
   
  . The top of the
  UNIVERSE
  !"
  
 
  Later, Terrence's voice broke off in the middle of something or
other—Bruce couldn't make any sense out of it at all—and turned into
crazy yells that faded out and never came back.
  
 
  Bruce figured the others might still be climbing somewhere, or maybe
they were dead. Either way it wouldn't make any difference to him. He
knew they would never come back down.
  
 
  He was switching off the radio for good when he saw the coloration
break over the window. It was the same as the dream, but for an
instant, dream and reality seemed fused like two superimposed film
negatives.
  
 
  He went to the window and looked out. The comfortable little city was
out there, and the canal flowing past through a pleasantly cool yet
sunny afternoon. Purple mist blanketed the knees of low hills and there
was a valley, green and rich with the trees high and full beside the
softly flowing canal water.
  
 
  The filmy shapes that seemed alive, that were partly translucent,
drifted along the water's edge, and birds as delicate as colored glass
wavered down the wind.
  
 
  He opened the shelter door and went out. The shelter looked the same,
but useless now. How did the shelter of that bleak world get into this
one, where the air was warm and fragrant, where there was no cold, from
that world into this one of his dreams?
  
 
  The girl—Helene—was standing there leaning against a tree, smoking a
cigarette.
  
 
  He walked toward her, and stopped. In the dream it had been easy, but
now he was embarrassed, in spite of the intimacy that had grown between
them. She wore the same casual slacks and sandals. Her hair was brown.
She was not particularly beautiful, but she was comfortable to look at
because she seemed so peaceful. Content, happy with what was and only
what was.
  
 
  He turned quickly. The shelter was still there, and behind it the row
of spaceships—not like chalk marks on a tallyboard now, but like odd
relics that didn't belong there in the thick green grass. Five ships
instead of four.
  
 
  There was his own individual shelter beyond the headquarters building,
and the other buildings. He looked up.
  
 
  There was no mountain.
  
