Knof Llud, the
   
   Quest III's
   
  captain, came slowly down the narrow
stair from the observatory, into the big rotunda that was now the main
recreation room, where most of the people gathered. The great chamber,
a full cross-section of the vessel, had been at first a fuel hold. At
the voyage's beginning eighty per cent of the fifteen-hundred-foot
cylinder had been engines and fuel; but as the immense stores were
spent and the holds became radioactively safe, the crew had spread
out from its original cramped quarters. Now the interstellar ship was
little more than a hollow shell.
  
 
  Eyes lifted from the vision screens to interrogate Knof Llud; he met
them with an impassive countenance, and announced quietly, "We've
sighted Earth."
  
 
  A feverish buzz arose; the captain gestured for silence and went on,
"It is still only a featureless disk to the telescope. Zost Relyul has
identified it—no more."
  
 
  But this time the clamor was not to be settled. People pressed round
the screens, peering into them as if with the naked eye they could
pick out the atom of reflected light that was Earth, home. They wrung
each other's hands, kissed, shouted, wept. For the present their fears
were forgotten and exaltation prevailed.
  
 
  Knof Llud smiled wryly. The rest of the little speech he had been about
to make didn't matter anyway, and it might have spoiled this moment.
  
 
  He turned to go, and was halted by the sight of his wife, standing at
his elbow. His wry smile took on warmth; he asked, "How do
   
   you
   
  feel,
Lesra?"
  
 
  She drew an uncertain breath and released it in a faint sigh. "I don't
know. It's good that Earth's still there." She was thinking, he judged
shrewdly, of Knof Jr. and Delza, who save from pictures could not
remember sunlit skies or grassy fields or woods in summer....
  
 
  He said, with a touch of tolerant amusement, "What did you think might
have happened to Earth? After all, it's only been nine hundred years."
  
 
  "That's just it," said Lesra shakily. "Nine hundred years have gone
by—
   
   there
   
  —and nothing will be the same. It won't be the same world
we left, the world we knew and fitted in...."
  
 
  The captain put an arm round her with comforting pressure. "Don't
worry. Things may have changed—but we'll manage." But his face had
hardened against registering the gnawing of that same doubtful fear
within him. He let his arm fall. "I'd better get up to the bridge.
There's a new course to be set now—for Earth."
  
 
  He left her and began to climb the stairway again. Someone switched
off the lights, and a charmed whisper ran through the big room as the
people saw each other's faces by the pale golden light of Earth's own
Sun, mirrored and multiplied by the screens. In that light Lesra's eyes
gleamed with unshed tears.
  
 
  Captain Llud found Navigator Gwar Den looking as smug as the cat
that ate the canary. Gwar Den was finding that the actual observed
positions of the planets thus far located agreed quite closely with
his extrapolations from long unused charts of the Solar System. He had
already set up on the calculator a course that would carry them to
Earth.
  
 
  Llud nodded curt approval, remarking, "Probably we'll be intercepted
before we get that far."
  
 
  Den was jolted out of his happy abstraction. "Uh, Captain," he said
hesitantly. "What kind of a reception do you suppose we'll get?"
  
 
  Llud shook his head slowly. "Who knows? We don't know whether any
of the other
   
   Quests
   
  returned successful, or if they returned at
all. And we don't know what changes have taken place on Earth. It's
possible—not likely, though—that something has happened to break
civilization's continuity to the point where our expedition has been
forgotten altogether."
  
