When Martin was sixteen, Raymond took him aside for the talk Ninian had
promised five years before.
  
 
  "The whole thing's all my brother Conrad's fault. You see, he's an
idealist," Raymond explained, pronouncing the last word with distaste.
  
 
  Martin nodded gravely. He was a quiet boy now, his brief past a dim and
rather ridiculous memory. Who could ever imagine him robbing a grocery
store or wielding a broken bottle now? He still was rather undersized
and he'd read so much that he'd weakened his eyes and had to wear
glasses. His face was pallid, because he spent little time in the sun,
and his speech rather overbred, his mentors from the future having
carefully eradicated all current vulgarities.
  
 
  "And Conrad really got upset over the way Earth has been exploiting
the not so intelligent life-forms on the other planets," Raymond
continued. "Which
   
   is
   
  distressing—though, of course, it's not as
if they were people. Besides, the government has been talking about
passing laws to do away with the—well, abuses and things like that,
and I'm sure someday everything will come out all right. However,
Conrad is so impatient."
  
 
  "I thought, in your world, machines did all the work," Martin suggested.
  
 
  "I've told you—our world is precisely the same as this one!" Raymond
snapped. "We just come a couple of centuries or so later, that's all.
But remember, our interests are identical. We're virtually the same
people ... although it is amazing what a difference two hundred odd
years of progress and polish can make in a species, isn't it?"
  
 
  He continued more mildly: "However, even you ought to be able to
understand that we can't make machinery without metal. We need food.
All that sort of thing comes from the out-system planets. And, on those
worlds, it's far cheaper to use native labor than to ship out all that
expensive machinery. After all, if we didn't give the natives jobs, how
would they manage to live?"
  
 
  "How did they live before? Come to think of it, if you don't work, how
do
   
   you
   
  live now?... I don't mean in the now for me, but the now for
you," Martin explained laboriously. It was so difficult to live in the
past and think in the future.
  
 
  "I'm trying to talk to you as if you were an adult," Raymond said, "but
if you will persist in these childish interruptions—"
  
 
  "I'm sorry," Martin said.
  
 
  But he wasn't, for by now he had little respect left for any of
his descendants. They were all exceedingly handsome and cultivated
young people, with superior educations, smooth ways of speaking and
considerable self-confidence, but they just weren't very bright. And
he had discovered that Raymond was perhaps the most intelligent of the
lot. Somewhere in that relatively short span of time, his line or—more
frightening—his race had lost something vital.
  
 
  Unaware of the near-contempt in which his young ancestor held him,
Raymond went on blandly: "Anyhow, Conrad took it upon himself to
feel particularly guilty, because, he decided, if it hadn't been for
the fact that our great-grandfather discovered the super-drive, we
might never have reached the stars. Which is ridiculous—his feeling
guilty, I mean. Perhaps a great-grandfather is responsible for his
great-grandchildren, but a great-grandchild can hardly be held
accountable for his great-grandfather."
  
 
  "How about a great-great-grandchild?" Martin couldn't help asking.
  
