 
  THE SPY IN THE ELEVATOR
  
 
  By DONALD E. WESTLAKE
  
 
  Illustrated by WEST
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Galaxy Magazine October 1961.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
 
 
   He was dangerously insane. He threatened
    
   to destroy everything that was noble and
    
   decent—including my date with my girl!
   
 
 
 
  When the elevator didn't come, that just made the day perfect. A broken
egg yolk, a stuck zipper, a feedback in the aircon exhaust, the window
sticking at full transparency—well, I won't go through the whole sorry
list. Suffice it to say that when the elevator didn't come, that put
the roof on the city, as they say.
  
 
  It was just one of those days. Everybody gets them. Days when you're
lucky in you make it to nightfall with no bones broken.
  
 
  But of all times for it to happen! For literally months I'd been
building my courage up. And finally, just today, I had made up my
mind to do it—to propose to Linda. I'd called her second thing this
morning—right after the egg yolk—and invited myself down to her
place. "Ten o'clock," she'd said, smiling sweetly at me out of the
phone. She knew why I wanted to talk to her. And when Linda said ten
o'clock, she meant ten o'clock.
  
 
  Don't get me wrong. I don't mean that Linda's a perfectionist or a
harridan or anything like that. Far from it. But she does have a
fixation on that one subject of punctuality. The result of her job,
of course. She was an ore-sled dispatcher. Ore-sleds, being robots,
were invariably punctual. If an ore-sled didn't return on time, no one
waited for it. They simply knew that it had been captured by some other
Project and had blown itself up.
  
 
  Well, of course, after working as an ore-sled dispatcher for three
years, Linda quite naturally was a bit obsessed. I remember one time,
shortly after we'd started dating, when I arrived at her place five
minutes late and found her having hysterics. She thought I'd been
killed. She couldn't visualize anything less than that keeping me from
arriving at the designated moment. When I told her what actually had
happened—I'd broken a shoe lace—she refused to speak to me for four
days.
  
 
  And then the elevator didn't come.
  
