Two miles into the dark hills north of the Elsby city limits, Tremaine
rounded a curve. The police car was parked on the shoulder beside the
highway just ahead. He pulled off the road ahead of it and walked back.
The door opened. A tall figure stepped out.
  
 
  "What's your problem, mister?" a harsh voice drawled.
  
 
  "What's the matter? Run out of signal?"
  
 
  "What's it to you, mister?"
  
 
  "Are you boys in touch with Grammond on the car set?"
  
 
  "We could be."
  
 
  "Mind if I have a word with him? My name's Tremaine."
  
 
  "Oh," said the cop, "you're the big shot from Washington." He shifted
chewing tobacco to the other side of his jaw. "Sure, you can talk to
him." He turned and spoke to the other cop, who muttered into the mike
before handing it to Tremaine.
  
 
  The heavy voice of the State Police chief crackled. "What's your beef,
Tremaine?"
  
 
  "I thought you were going to keep your men away from Elsby until I gave
the word, Grammond."
  
 
  "That was before I knew your Washington stuffed shirts were holding out
on me."
  
 
  "It's nothing we can go to court with, Grammond. And the job you were
doing might have been influenced if I'd told you about the Elsby angle."
  
 
  Grammond cursed. "I could have put my men in the town and taken it
apart brick by brick in the time—"
  
 
  "That's just what I don't want. If our bird sees cops cruising, he'll
go underground."
  
 
  "You've got it all figured, I see. I'm just the dumb hick you boys use
for the spade work, that it?"
  
 
  "Pull your lip back in. You've given me the confirmation I needed."
  
 
  "Confirmation, hell! All I know is that somebody somewhere is punching
out a signal. For all I know, it's forty midgets on bicycles, pedalling
all over the damned state. I've got fixes in every county—"
  
 
  "The smallest hyperwave transmitter Uncle Sam knows how to build weighs
three tons," said Tremaine. "Bicycles are out."
  
 
  Grammond snorted. "Okay, Tremaine," he said. "You're the boy with all
the answers. But if you get in trouble, don't call me; call Washington."
  
