The closed sedan was warm, even in early December.
  
 
  Outside, the street was a progression of shadowed block forms. I was
shivering slightly, my teeth rattling like the porcelain they were. Was
this the storied "ride," I wondered?
  
 
  Carmen finally returned to the car, unlatched the door and slid in. He
did not reinsert the ignition key. I did not feel like sprinting down
the deserted street.
  
 
  "The boys will have it set up in a minute," Tony the racketeer informed
me.
  
 
  "What?" The firing squad?
  
 
  "The Expendable, of course."
  
 
  "Here? You dragged me out here to see how you have prostituted my
invention? I presume you've set it up with a 'Keep Our City Clean' sign
pasted on it."
  
 
  He chuckled. It was a somewhat nasty sound, or so I imagined.
  
 
  A flashlight winked in the sooty twilight.
  
 
  "Okay. Let's go," Tony said, slapping my shoulder.
  
 
  I got out of the car, rubbing my flabby bicep. Whenever I took my
teen-age daughter to the beach from my late wife's parents' home, I
frequently found 230 pound bullies did kick sand in my ears.
  
 
  The machine was installed on the corner, half covered with a gloomy
white shroud, and fearlessly plugged into the city lighting system via
a blanketed streetlamp. Two hoods hovered in a doorway ready to take
care of the first cop with a couple of fifties or a single .38, as
necessity dictated.
  
 
  Tony guided my elbow. "Okay, Professor, I think I understand the bit
now, but I'll let you run it up with the flagpole for me, to see how it
waves to the national anthem."
  
 
  "Here?" I spluttered once more. "I told you, Carmen, I wanted nothing
more to do with you. Your check is still on deposit...."
  
 
  "You didn't want anything to do with me in the first place." The thug's
teeth flashed in the night. "Throw your contraption into gear, buddy."
  
 
  That was the first time the tone of respect, even if faked, had gone
out of his voice. I moved to the switchboard of my invention. What
remained was as simple as adjusting a modern floor lamp to a medium
light position. I flipped.
  
 
  Restraining any impulse toward colloqualism, I was also deeply
disturbed by what next occurred.
  
 
  One of the massive square shapes on the horizon vanished.
  
 
  "What have you done?" I yelped, ripping the cover off the machine.
  
 
  Even under the uncertain illumination of the smogged stars I could see
that the unit was half gone—in fact, exactly halved.
  
 
  "Squint the Seal is one of my boys. He used to be a mechanic in the
old days for Burger, Madle, the guys who used to rob banks and stuff."
There was an unmistakable note of boyish admiration in Carmen's voice.
"He figured the thing would work like that. Separate the poles and you
increase the size of the working area."
  
 
  "You mean square the operational field. Your idiot doesn't even know
mechanics."
  
 
  "No, but he knows all about how any kind of machine works."
  
 
  "You call that working?" I demanded. "Do you realize what you have
there, Carmen?"
  
 
  "Sure. A disintegrator ray, straight out of
   
   Startling Stories
   
  ."
  
 
  My opinion as to the type of person who followed the pages of
science-fiction magazines with fluttering lips and tracing finger was
upheld.
  
 
  I looked at the old warehouse and of course didn't see it.
  
 
  "What was this a test for?" I asked, fearful of the Frankenstein I had
made. "What are you planning to do now?"
  
 
  "This was no test, Venetti. This was it. I just wiped out Harry Keno
and his intimates right in the middle of their confidential squat."
  
 
  "Good heavens. That's uncouthly old-fashioned of you, Carmen! Why,
that's
   
   murder
   
  ."
  
 
  "Not," Carmen said, "without no
   
   corpus delecti
   
  ."
  
 
  "The body of the crime remains without the body of the victim," I
remembered from my early Ellery Queen training.
  
 
  "You're talking too much, Professor," Tony suggested. "Remember,
   
   you
   
  did it with
   
   your
   
  machine."
  
 
  "Yes," I said at length. "And why are we standing here letting those
machines sit there?"
  
