Dan looked around at the gray walls, with shelves stacked to the low
ceiling with wrapped paintings. Two three-hundred-watt bulbs shed a
white glare over the tile floor, a neat white refrigerator, a bunk,
an arm-chair, a bookshelf and a small table set with paper plates,
plastic utensils and a portable radio—all hastily installed at Kelly's
order. Dan opened the refrigerator, looked over the stock of salami,
liverwurst, cheese and beer. He opened a loaf of bread, built up a
well-filled sandwich, keyed open a can of beer.
  
 
  It wasn't fancy, but it would do. Phase one of the plan had gone off
without a hitch.
  
 
  Basically, his idea was simple. Art collections had been disappearing
from closely guarded galleries and homes all over the world. It was
obvious that no one could enter a locked vault, remove a stack of large
canvases and leave, unnoticed by watchful guards—and leaving the locks
undamaged.
  
 
  Yet the paintings were gone. Someone had been in those vaults—someone
who hadn't entered in the usual way.
  
 
  Theory failed at that point; that left the experimental method. The
Snithian collection was the largest west of the Mississippi. With
such a target, the thieves were bound to show up. If Dan sat in the
vault—day and night—waiting—he would see for himself how they
operated.
  
 
  He finished his sandwich, went to the shelves and pulled down one of
the brown-paper bundles. Loosening the string binding the package, he
slid a painting into view. It was a gaily colored view of an open-air
cafe, with a group of men and women in gay-ninetyish costumes gathered
at a table. He seemed to remember reading something about it in a
magazine. It was a cheerful scene; Dan liked it. Still, it hardly
seemed worth all the effort....
  
 
  He went to the wall switch and turned off the lights. The orange glow
of the filaments died, leaving only a faint illumination from the
night-light over the door. When the thieves arrived, it might give him
a momentary advantage if his eyes were adjusted to the dark. He groped
his way to the bunk.
  
 
  So far, so good, he reflected, stretching out. When they showed up,
he'd have to handle everything just right. If he scared them off
there'd be no second chance. He would have lost his crack at—whatever
his discovery might mean to him.
  
 
  But he was ready. Let them come.
  
