He turned away grim-lipped and left the bridge. From his private
office-cabin, he sent a message to Chief Astronomer Zost Relyul to
notify him as soon as Earth's surface features became clear; then he
sat idle, alone with his thoughts.
  
 
  The ship's automatic mechanisms had scant need of tending; Knof Llud
found himself wishing that he could find some back-breaking task for
everyone on board, himself included, to fill up the hours that remained.
  
 
  There was an extensive and well-chosen film library in the cabin, but
he couldn't persuade himself to kill time that way. He could go down
and watch the screens, or to the family apartment where he might find
Lesra and the children—but somehow he didn't want to do that either.
  
 
  He felt empty, drained—like his ship. As the
   
   Quest III's
   
  fuel stores
and the hope of success in man's mightiest venture had dwindled, so the
strength had gone out of him. Now the last fuel compartment was almost
empty and Captain Knof Llud felt tired and old.
  
 
  Perhaps, he thought, he was feeling the weight of his nine hundred
Earth years—though physically he was only forty now, ten years older
than when the voyage had begun. That was the foreshortening along the
time axis of a space ship approaching the speed of light. Weeks and
months had passed for the
   
   Quest III
   
  in interstellar flight while
years and decades had raced by on the home world.
  
 
  Bemusedly Llud got to his feet and stood surveying a cabinet with
built-in voice recorder and pigeonholes for records. There were about
three dozen film spools there—his personal memoirs of the great
expedition, a segment of his life and of history. He might add that to
the ship's official log and its collections of scientific data, as a
report to whatever powers might be on Earth now—if such powers were
still interested.
  
 
  Llud selected a spool from among the earliest. It was one he had made
shortly after leaving Procyon, end of the first leg of the trip. He
slid it onto the reproducer.
  
 
  His own voice came from the speaker, fresher, more vibrant and
confident than he knew it was now.
  
 
  "One light-day out from Procyon, the thirty-third day by ship's time
since leaving Earth.
  
 
  "Our visit to Procyon drew a blank. There is only one huge planet, twice
the size of Jupiter, and like Jupiter utterly unfit to support a colony.
  
 
  "Our hopes were dashed—and I think all of us, even remembering the
Centaurus Expedition's failure, hoped more than we cared to admit. If
Procyon had possessed a habitable planet, we could have returned after
an absence of not much over twenty years Earth time.
  
 
  "It is cheering to note that the crew seems only more resolute. We go
on to Capella; its spectrum, so like our own Sun's, beckons. If success
comes there, a century will have passed before we can return to Earth;
friends, relatives, all the generation that launched the
   
   Quest
   
  ships
will be long since dead. Nevertheless we go on. Our generation's dream,
humanity's dream, lives in us and in the ship forever...."
  
 
  Presently Knof Llud switched off that younger voice of his and leaned
back, an ironic smile touching his lips. That fervent idealism seemed
remote and foreign to him now. The fanfares of departure must still
have been ringing in his ears.
  
 
  He rose, slipped the record back in its niche and picked out another,
later, one.
  
 
  "One week since we passed close enough to Aldebaran to ascertain that
that system, too, is devoid of planets.
  
 
  "We face the unpleasant realization that what was feared is probably
true—that worlds such as the Sun's are a rare accident, and that we
may complete our search without finding even one new Earth.
  
 
  "It makes no difference, of course; we cannot betray the plan....
This may be man's last chance of escaping his pitiful limitation to
one world in all the Universe. Certainly the building of this ship
and its two sisters, the immense expenditure of time and labor and
energy stores that went into them, left Earth's economy drained and
exhausted. Only once in a long age does mankind rise to such a selfless
and transcendent effort—the effort of Egypt that built the pyramids,
or the war efforts of the nations in the last great conflicts of the
twentieth century.
  
 
  "Looked at historically, such super-human outbursts of energy are
the result of a population's outgrowing its room and resources, and
therefore signalize the beginning of the end. Population can be
limited, but the price is a deadly frustration, because growth alone is
life.... In our day the end of man's room for growth on the Earth was
in sight—so we launched the
   
   Quests
   
  . Perhaps our effort will prove as
futile as pyramid-building, less practical than orgies of slaughter to
reduce pressure.... In any case, it would be impossible to transport
very many people to other stars; but Earth could at least go into
its decline with the knowledge that its race went onward and upward,
expanding limitlessly into the Universe....
  
 
  "Hopeless, unless we find planets!"
  
