Edith was leading him into the living room, her hand lying still in his,
a cool, dead bird lying still in his. He sat down on the couch, she sat
down beside him—but she had hesitated. He
   
   wasn't
   
  being sensitive; she
had hesitated. His wife had hesitated before sitting down beside him.
  
 
  Carlisle had said his position was analogous to Columbus', to Vasco De
Gama's, to Preshoff's when the Russian returned from the Moon—but more
so. Carlisle had said lots of things, but even Carlisle who had worked
with him all the way, who had engineered the entire fantastic
journey—even Carlisle the Nobel prize winner, the multi-degreed genius
in uniform, had not actually spoken to him as one man to another.
  
 
 
   The eyes. It always showed in their eyes.
   
 
 
  He looked across the room at Ralphie, standing in the doorway, a boy
already tall, already widening in the shoulders, already large of
feature. It was like looking into the mirror and seeing himself
twenty-five years ago. But Ralphie's face was drawn, was worried in a
way that few ten-year-old faces are.
  
 
  "How's it going in school?" he asked.
  
 
  "Gee, Dad, it's the second month of summer vacation."
  
 
  "Well, then, before summer vacation?"
  
 
  "Pretty good."
  
 
  Edith said, "He made top forum the six-month period before vacation, and
he made top forum the six-month period you went away, Hank."
  
 
  He nodded, remembering that, remembering everything, remembering the
warmth of her farewell, the warmth of Ralphie's farewell, their tears as
he left for the experimental flight station in the Aleutians. They had
feared for him, having read of the many launchings gone wrong even in
continent-to-continent experimental flight.
  
 
  They had been right to worry. He had suffered much after that blow-up.
But now they should be rejoicing, because he had survived and made the
long journey. Ralphie suddenly said, "I got to go, Dad. I promised Walt
and the others I'd pitch. It's Inter-Town Little League, you know. It's
Harmon, you know. I got to keep my word." Without waiting for an answer,
he waved his hand—it shook; a ten-year-old boy's hand that shook—and
ran from the room and from the house.
  
 
  He and Edith sat beside each other, and he wanted badly to take her in
his arms, and yet he didn't want to oppress her. He stood up. "I'm very
tired. I'd like to lie down a while." Which wasn't true, because he'd
been lying down all the months of the way back.
  
 
  She said, "Of course. How stupid of me, expecting you to sit around and
make small talk and pick up just where you left off."
  
 
  He nodded. But that was exactly what he wanted to do—make small talk
and pick up just where he'd left off. But they didn't expect it of him;
they wouldn't let him; they felt he had changed too much.
  
