With a wrenching turn that almost threw them out of control, Dennis
maneuvered to avoid the beam. Again Koerber's beam lashed out, as he
sank lower into the looming mass, and again Dennis anticipating the
maneuver avoided it.
  
 
  "George Randall!" He shouted desperately into the speaker. "Cut all
jets in the rocket room! Hurry, man!" He banked again and then zoomed
out of the increasing gravity trap.
  
 
  "Randall! I've got to use the magnetic repulsion plates.... Cut all the
jets!" But there was no response. Randall's screen remained blank. Then
Koerber's lashing magnetic beam touched and the I.S.P. ship was caught,
forced to follow the pirate ship's plunge like the weight at the end of
a whiplash. Koerber's gunners sent one parting shot, an atom-blast that
shook the trapped cruiser like a leaf.
  
 
  Beneath them, growing larger by the second, a small world rushed up to
meet them. The readings in the Planetograph seemed to have gone crazy.
It showed diameter 1200 miles; composition mineral and radio-active.
Gravity seven-eighths of Terra. It couldn't be! Unless perhaps this
unknown planetoid was the legendary core of the world that at one time
was supposed to have existed between Jupiter and Mars. Only that could
possibly explain the incredible gravity.
  
 
  And then began another type of battle. Hearing the Captain's orders to
Randall, and noting that no result had been obtained, Scotty Byrnes
himself cut the jets. The Magnetic Repulsion Plates went into action,
too late to save them from being drawn, but at least they could prevent
a crash. Far in the distance they could see Koerber's ship preceding
them in a free fall, then the Planetoid was rushing up to engulf them.
  
 
 
  III
  
 
  The atmosphere was somewhat tenuous, but it was breathable, provided
a man didn't exert himself. To the silent crew of the I.S.P. Cruiser,
the strange world to which Koerber's magnetic Beam had drawn them,
was anything but reassuring. Towering crags jutted raggedly against
the sky, and the iridescent soil of the narrow valley that walled in
the cruiser, had a poisonous, deadly look. As far as their eyes could
reach, the desolate, denuded vista stretched to the horizon.
  
 
  "Pretty much of a mess!" Dennis Brooke's face was impassive as he
turned to Scotty Byrnes. "What's your opinion? Think we can patch her
up, or are we stuck here indefinitely?"
  
 
  Scotty eyed the damage. The atom-blast had penetrated the hull into
the forward fuel chambers and the armor had blossomed out like flower
petals. The crash-landing had not helped either.
  
 
  "Well, there's a few beryloid plates in the storage locker, Captain,
but," he scratched his head ruminatively and shifted his precious cud.
  
 
  "But what? Speak up man!" It was Tom Jeffery, his nerves on edge, his
ordinarily gentle voice like a lash.
  
 
  "But, you may as well know it," Scotty replied quietly. "That parting
shot of Koerber's severed our main rocket feed. I had to use the
emergency tank to make it down here!"
  
 
  For a long moment the four men looked at each other in silence. Dennis
Brooke's face was still impassive but for the flaming hazel eyes. Tom
tugged at the torn sleeve of his I.S.P. uniform, while Scotty gazed
mournfully at the damaged ship. Dallas Bernan looked at the long,
ragged line of cliffs.
  
 
  "I think we got Koerber, though," he said at last. "While Tom was doing
a job of navigation, I had one last glimpse of him coming down fast
and out of control somewhere behind those crags over there!"
  
 
  "To hell with Koerber!" Tom Jeffery exploded. "You mean we're stuck in
this hellish rock-pile?"
  
 
  "Easy, Tom!" Captain Brooke's tones were like ice. On his pale,
impassive face, his eyes were like flaming topaz. "Where's Randall?"
  
 
  "Probably hiding his head under a bunk!" Dallas laughed with scorn. His
contemptuous remark voiced the feelings of the entire crew. A man who
failed to be at his battle-station in time of emergency, had no place
in the I.S.P.
  
 
  "Considering the gravity of this planetoid," Dennis Brooke said
thoughtfully, "it's going to take some blast to get us off!"
  
 
  "Maybe we can locate a deposit of anerioum or uranium or something for
our atom-busters to chew on!" Scotty said hopefully. He was an eternal
optimist.
  
 
  "Better break out those repair plates," Dennis said to Scotty. "Tom,
you get the welders ready. I've got a few entries to make in the log
book, and then we'll decide on a party to explore the terrain and try
to find out what happened to Koerber's ship. I must know," he said in a
low voice, but with such passion that the others were startled.
  
 
  A figure appeared in the slanting doorway of the ship in time to hear
the last words. It was George Randall, adjusting a bandaged forehead
bumped during the crash landing.
  
 
  "Captain ... I ... I wanted ..." he paused unable to continue.
  
 
  "You wanted what?" Captain Brooke's voice was terse. "Perhaps you
wanted to explain why you weren't at your battle station?"
  
 
  "Sir, I wanted to know if ... if I might help Scotty with the welding
job...." That wasn't at all what he'd intended to say. But somehow the
words had stuck in his throat and his face flushed deep scarlet. His
candid blue eyes were suspiciously brilliant, and the white bandage
with its crimson stains made an appealing, boyish figure. It softened
the anger in Brooke's heart. Thinking it over calmly, Dennis realized
this was the youngster's first trip into the outer orbits, and better
men than he had cracked in those vast reaches of space. But there had
been an instant when he'd found Randall cowering in the rocket-room, in
the grip of paralyzing hysteria, when he could cheerfully have wrung
his neck!
  
 
  "Certainly, Randall," he replied in a much more kindly tone. "We'll
need all hands now."
  
 
  "Thank you, sir!" Randall seemed to hesitate for a moment, opened his
mouth to speak further, but feeling the other's calculating gaze upon
him, he whirled and re-entered the ship.
  
 
  "But for him we wouldn't be here!" Dallas exclaimed. "Aagh!" He shook
his head in disgust until the several folds of flesh under his chin
shook like gelatin. "Cowards are hell!" He spat.
  
 
  "Easy, Dallas, Randall's a kid, give 'im a chance." Dennis observed.
  
 
  "You Captain ... you're defending 'im? Why you had a greater stake in
this than we, and he's spoiled it for you!"
  
 
  "Yep," Dennis nodded. "But I'm still keeping my senses clear. No feuds
on my ship. Get it!" The last two words cut like a scimitar.
  
 
  Dallas nodded and lowered his eyes. Scotty shifted his cud and spat
a thin stream of juice over the iridescent ground. One by one they
re-entered the cruiser.
  
