"What the devil are you doing here on Venus and here in this place?"
  
 
  "Growing." The blue eyes were unafraid.
  
 
  Sombrely, Johnson regarded her. What was she doing here? Was she in
the employ of the Venusians? If she was being planted on him, then
his purpose here was suspected. He shrugged the thought aside. If his
purpose here was suspected, there would be no point in planting a woman
on him.
  
 
  There would only be the minor matter of slipping a knife into his back.
  
 
  In this city, as on all of Venus, humans died easily. No one questioned
the motives of the killer.
  
 
  "You look as if you were considering some very grave matter," Vee Vee
said.
  
 
  "Not any longer," he laughed.
  
 
  "You have decided them?"
  
 
  "Yes."
  
 
  "Every last one of them?"
  
 
  "Oh, there might be one or two matters undecided somewhere, say out on
the periphery of the galaxy. But we will solve them when we get to
them." He waved vaguely toward the roof and the sky of space hidden
behind the clouds that lay over the roof, glanced around as a man eased
himself into an empty stool on his left. The man was Caldwell.
  
 
  "Zlock!" Caldwell said, to the bartender. "Make it snappy. Gotta have
zlock. Finest damn drink in the solar system." Caldwell's voice was
thick, his tongue heavy. Johnson's eyes went back to the girl but out
of the corner of them he watched Caldwell's hand lying on the bar. The
fingers were beating a quick nervous tattoo on the yellow wood.
  
 
  "I haven't seen him," Caldwell's fingers beat out their tattoo. "But I
think he is, or was, here."
  
 
  "Um," Johnson said, his eyes on Vee Vee. "How—"
  
 
  "Because that girl was asking for him," Caldwell's fingers answered.
"Watch that girl!" Picking up the zlock, he lurched away from the bar.
  
 
  "Your friend is not as drunk as he seems," Vee Vee said, watching
Caldwell.
  
 
  "My friend? Do you mean that drunk? I never saw him—"
  
 
  "Lying is one of the deadly sins." Her eyes twinkled at him. Under the
merriment that danced in them there was ice. Johnson felt cold.
  
 
  "The reservations for ze dreaming, great one?" The headwaiter was
bowing and scraping in front of him. "The great one has decided, yes?"
  
 
  "The dreaming!" Vee Vee looked suddenly alert. "Of course. We must see
the dreaming. Everyone wants to see the dreaming. We will go, won't we
darling?" She hooked her hand into Johnson's elbow.
  
 
  "Certainly," Johnson said. The decision was made on the spur of the
moment. That there was danger in it, he did not doubt. But there might
be something else. And
   
   he
   
  might be there.
  
 
  "Oh. But very good. Ze great Unger, you will love him!" The headwaiter
clutched the gold coins that Johnson extended, bowed himself out of
sight.
  
 
  "Say, I want to know more—" Johnson began. His words were drowned in
a blast of trumpets. The band that had been playing went into sudden
silence. Waves of perfume began to flow into the place. The perfumes
were blended, but one aroma was prominent among them, the sweet,
cloying, soul-stirring perfume of the Dreamer.
  
 
  In the suddenly hushed place little sounds began to appear as Venusians
and humans began to shift their feet and their bodies in anticipation
of what was to happen.
  
 
  The trumpets flared again.
  
 
  On one side of the place, a big door began to swing slowly open. From
beyond that slowly opening door came music, soft, muted strains that
sounded like lutes from heaven.
  
 
  Vee Vee, her hand on Johnson's elbow, rose. Johnson stood up with
her. He got the surprise of his life as her fingers clenched, digging
into his muscles. Pain shot through his arm, paralyzing it and almost
paralyzing him. He knew instantly that she was using the Karmer nerve
block paralysis on him. His left hand moved with lightning speed, the
tips of his fingers striking savagely against her shoulder.
  
 
  She gasped, her face whitened as pain shot through her in response to
the thrust of his finger tips. Her hand that had been digging into his
elbow lost its grip, dropped away and hung limp at her side. Grabbing
it, she began to massage it.
  
 
  "You—you—" Hot anger and shock were in her voice. "You're the first
man I ever knew who could break the Karmer nerve paralysis."
  
 
  "And you're the first woman who ever tried it on me."
  
 
  "But—"
  
 
  "Shall we go watch the dreaming?" He took the arm that still hung limp
at her side and tucked it into his elbow.
  
 
  "If you try to use the Karmer grip on me again I'll break your arm," he
said. His voice was low but there was a wealth of meaning in it.
  
 
  "I won't do it again," the girl said stoutly. "I never make the same
mistake twice."
  
 
  "Good," Johnson said.
  
 
  "The second time we break our victim's neck," Vee Vee said.
  
 
  "What a sweet, charming child you—"
  
 
  "I told you before, I'm not a child."
  
 
  "Child vampire," Johnson said. "Let me finish my sentences before you
interrupt."
  
 
  She was silent. A smile, struggling to appear on her face, seemed to
say she held no malice. Her fingers tightened on Johnson's arm. He
tensed, expecting the nerve block grip again. Instead with the tips of
her fingers she gently patted his arm.
  
 
  "There, there, darling, relax," she said. "I know a better way to get
you than by using the Karmer grip."
  
 
  "What way?"
  
 
  Her eyes sparkled. "Eve's way," she answered.
  
 
  "Um!" Surprise sounded in his grunt. "But apples don't grow on Venus."
  
 
  "Eve's daughters don't use apples any more, darling. Come along."
  
 
  Moving toward the open door that led to the Room of the Dreaming,
Johnson saw that Caldwell had risen and was following them. Caldwell's
face was writhing in apprehensive agony and he was making warning
signs. Johnson ignored them. With Vee Vee's fingers lightly patting his
arm, they moved into the Room of the Dreaming.
  
 
 
  II
  
 
  It was a huge, semi-illumined room, with tier on tier of circling ramps
rising up from an open space at the bottom. There ought to have been
a stage there at the bottom, but there wasn't. Instead there was an
open space, a mat, and a head rest. Up at the top of the circling ramps
the room was in darkness, a fit hiding place for ghosts or Venusian
werewolves. Pillows and a thick rug covered the circling ramps.
  
 
  The soul-quickening Perfume of the Dreamer was stronger here. The
throbbing of the lutes was louder. It was Venusian music the lutes were
playing. Human ears found it inharmonious at first, but as they became
accustomed to it, they began to detect rhythms and melodies that human
minds had not known existed. The room was pleasantly cool but it had
the feel of dampness. A world that was rarely without pelting rain
would have the feel of dampness in its dreaming rooms.
  
 
  The music playing strange harmonies in his ears, the perfume sending
tingling feelings through his nose, Johnson entered the Room of the
Dreamer. He suspected that other forces, unknown to him, were catching
hold of his senses. He had been in dreaming rooms many times before but
he had not grown accustomed to them. He wondered if any human ever
did. A touch of chill always came over him as he crossed the threshold.
In entering these places, it was as if some unknown nerve center
inside the human organism was touched by something, some force, some
radiation, some subtlety, that quite escaped radiation. He felt the
coldness now.
  
 
  Vee Vee's fingers left off patting his arm.
  
 
  "Do you feel it, darling?"
  
 
  "Yes."
  
 
  "What is it?"
  
 
  "How would I know?"
  
 
  "Please!" Her voice grew sharp. "I think Johnny Johnson ought to know."
  
 
  "Johnny! How do you know my name?"
  
 
  "Shouldn't I recognize one of Earth's foremost scientists, even if he
is incognito on Venus?" Her voice had a teasing quality in it.
  
 
  "But—"
  
 
  "And who besides Johnny Johnson would recognize the Karmer nerve grip
and be able to break it instantly?"
  
 
  "Hell—"
  
 
  "John Michael Johnson, known as Johnny to his friends, Earth's foremost
expert in the field of electro-magnetic radiations within the human
body!" Her words were needles of icy fact, each one jabbing deeper and
deeper into him.
  
 
  "And how would I make certain you were Johnny Johnson, except by seeing
if you could break the Karmer nerve grip? If you could break it, then
there was no doubt who you were!" Her words went on and on.
  
 
  "Who are you?" His words were blasts of sound.
  
 
  "Please, darling, you are making a scene. I am sure this is the last
thing you really want to do."
  
 
  He looked quickly around them. The Venusians and humans moving into
this room seemed to be paying no attention to him. His gaze came back
to her.
  
 
  Again she patted his arm. "Relax, darling. Your secrets are safe with
me."
  
 
  A gray color came up inside his soul. "But—but—" His voice was
suddenly weak.
  
 
  The fingers on his arm were very gentle. "No harm will come to you. Am
I not with you?"
  
 
  "That's what I'm afraid of!" he snapped at her. If he had had a
choice, he might have drawn back. But with circumstances as they
were—his life, Caldwell's life, possibly Vee Vee's life hung in the
balance. Didn't she know that this was true? And as for Martin—But
Caldwell had said that she had been asking about Martin. What
connection did she have with that frantic human genius he sought here?
  
 
  Johnson felt his skin crawl. He moved toward a nest of cushions on
a ramp, found a Venusian was beating him to them, deftly changed to
another nest, found it. Vee Vee flowed to the floor on his right, moved
cushions to make him more comfortable. She moved in an easy sort of way
that was all flowing movement. He sat down. Someone bumped him on the
left.
  
 
  "Sorry, bud. Didn't mean to bump into you." Caldwell's voice was still
thick and heavy. He sprawled to the floor on Johnson's left. Under
the man's coat, Johnson caught a glimpse of a slight bulge, the zit
gun hidden there. His left arm pressed against his own coat, feeling
his own zit gun. Operating under gas pressure, throwing a charge of
gas-driven corvel, the zit guns were not only almost noiseless in
operation but they knocked out a human or a Venusian in a matter of
seconds.
  
 
  True, the person they knocked unconscious would be all right the next
day. For this reason, many people did not regard the zit guns as
effective weapons, but Johnson had a fondness for them. The feel of the
little weapon inside his coat sent a surge of comfort through him.
  
 
  The music picked up a beat, perfume seemed to flow even more freely
through the air, the lights dimmed almost to darkness, a single bright
spotlight appeared in the ceiling, casting a circle of brilliant
illumination on the mat and the headrest at the bottom of the room. The
curtain rose.
  
