Grampa knitted his bushy, white eyebrows and petulantly pushed the last
button on his pircuit. The last light went out. "You've got work to
do, have you? Whose flivver do you think this is, anyhow?"
  
 
  "It belongs to all of us," Four said shrilly. "You gave us all a sixth
share."
  
 
  "That's right, Four," Grampa muttered, "so I did. But whose money
bought it?"
  
 
  "You bought it, Grampa," Fred said.
  
 
  "That's right! And who invented the gravity polarizer and the space
flivver? Eh? Who made possible this gallivanting all over space?"
  
 
  "You, Grampa," Fred said.
  
 
  "You bet! And who made one hundred million dollars out of it that the
rest of you vultures are just hanging around to gobble up when I die?"
  
 
  "And who spent it all trying to invent perpetual motion machines and
longevity pills," Joyce said bitterly, "and fixed it so we'd have to
go searching for uranium and habitable worlds all through this deadly
galaxy? You, Grampa!"
  
 
  "Well, now," Grampa protested, "I got a little put away yet. You'll be
sorry when I'm dead and gone."
  
 
  "You're never going to die, Grampa," Joyce said harshly. "Just
before we left, you bought a hundred-year contract with that
Life-Begins-At-Ninety longevity company."
  
 
  "Well, now," said Grampa, blinking, "how'd you find out about that?
Well, now!" In confusion, he turned back to the pircuit and jabbed a
button. Thirteen slim lights sprang on. "I'll get you this time!"
  
 
  Four stretched and stood up. He looked curiously into the corner by the
computer where Grampa's chair stood. "You brought that pircuit from
Earth, didn't you? What's the game?"
  
 
  Grampa looked up, obviously relieved to drop his act of intense
concentration. "I'll tell you, boy. You play against the pircuit,
taking turns, and you can put out one, two or three lights. The player
who makes the other one turn out the last light is the winner."
  
 
  "That's simple," Four said without hesitation. "The winning strategy is
to—"
  
 
  "Don't be a kibitzer!" Grampa snapped. "When I need help, I'll ask
for it. No dad-blamed machine is gonna outthink Grampa!" He snorted
indignantly.
  
