Back in his room, Tremaine put through a call.
  
 
  "It looks like Grammond's not willing to be left out in the cold, Fred.
Tell him if he queers this—"
  
 
  "I don't know but what he might have something," the voice came back
over the filtered hum. "Suppose he smokes them out—"
  
 
  "Don't go dumb on me, Fred. We're not dealing with West Virginia
moonshiners."
  
 
  "Don't tell me my job, Tremaine!" the voice snapped. "And don't try out
your famous temper on me. I'm still in charge of this investigation."
  
 
  "Sure. Just don't get stuck in some senator's hip pocket." Tremaine
hung up the telephone, went to the dresser and poured two fingers of
Scotch into a water glass. He tossed it down, then pulled on his coat
and left the hotel.
  
 
  He walked south two blocks, turned left down a twilit side street. He
walked slowly, looking at the weathered frame houses. Number 89 was a
once-stately three-storied mansion overgrown with untrimmed vines, its
windows squares of sad yellow light. He pushed through the gate in the
ancient picket fence, mounted the porch steps and pushed the button
beside the door, a dark panel of cracked varnish. It was a long minute
before the door opened. A tall woman with white hair and a fine-boned
face looked at him coolly.
  
 
  "Miss Carroll," Tremaine said. "You won't remember me, but I—"
  
 
  "There is nothing whatever wrong with my faculties, James," Miss
Carroll said calmly. Her voice was still resonant, a deep contralto.
Only a faint quaver reflected her age—close to eighty, Tremaine
thought, startled.
  
 
  "I'm flattered you remember me, Miss Carroll," he said.
  
 
  "Come in." She led the way to a pleasant parlor set out with the
furnishings of another era. She motioned Tremaine to a seat and took a
straight chair across the room from him.
  
 
  "You look very well, James," she said, nodding. "I'm pleased to see
that you've amounted to something."
  
 
  "Just another bureaucrat, I'm afraid."
  
 
  "You were wise to leave Elsby. There is no future here for a young man."
  
 
  "I often wondered why you didn't leave, Miss Carroll. I thought, even
as a boy, that you were a woman of great ability."
  
 
  "Why did you come today, James?" asked Miss Carroll.
  
 
  "I...." Tremaine started. He looked at the old lady. "I want some
information. This is an important matter. May I rely on your
discretion?"
  
 
  "Of course."
  
 
  "How long has Mr. Bram lived in Elsby?"
  
