Jonathan was slumped forward across the table, his head buried in his
arms.
  
 
  "Catch a hold," said Billy, pushing back from the table. A dozen girls
volunteered with a rush. "Hoist!" said Billy. They lifted him like a
sleepy child, bore him tenderly up an incline and into a stateroom,
where they deposited him on the bed.
  
 
  Ann said to Olga; "Help me with these boots." But they resisted every
tug. "It's no use," groaned Ann, straightening up and wiping her bright
yellow hair back from her eyes. "His feet have swollen. We'll have to
cut them off."
  
 
  At these words, Jonathan raised upright as if someone had pulled a rope.
  
 
  "
   
   Cut off whose feet?
   
  " he cried in alarm.
  
 
  "Not your feet, silly," said Ann. "Your boots."
  
 
  "Lay a hand on those boots," he scowled; "and I'll make me another pair
out of your hides. They set me back a week's salary." Having delivered
himself of this ultimatum, he went back to sleep.
  
 
  Olga clapped her hand to her forehead. "And this," she cried "is what
we've been praying for during the last three years."
  
 
  The next day found Jonathan Fawkes hobbling around by the aid of a
cane. At the portal of the space ship, he stuck out his head, glanced
all around warily. None of the girls were in sight. They had, he
presumed, gone about their chores: hunting, fishing, gathering fruits
and berries. He emerged all the way and set out for the creek. He
walked with an exaggerated limp just in case any of them should be
hanging around. As long as he was an invalid he was safe, he hoped.
  
 
  He sighed. Not every man could be waited on so solicitously by
twenty-seven handsome strapping amazons. He wished he could carry it
off in cavalier fashion. He hobbled to the creek, sat down beneath the
shade of a tree. He just wasn't the type, he supposed. And it might be
years before they were rescued.
  
 
  As a last resort, he supposed, he could hide out in the hills or join
the centaurs. He rather fancied himself galloping across the plains
on the back of a centaur. He looked up with a start. Ann Clotilde was
ambling toward him.
  
 
  "How's the invalid?" she said, seating herself beside him.
  
 
  "Hot, isn't it?" he said. He started to rise. Ann Clotilde placed the
flat of her hand on his chest and shoved. "
   
   Ooof!
   
  " he grunted. He sat
down rather more forcibly than he had risen.
  
 
  "Don't get up because of me," she informed him. "It's my turn to cook,
but I saw you out here beneath the trees. Dinner can wait. Jonathan do
you know that you are irresistible?" She seized his shoulders, stared
into his eyes. He couldn't have felt any more uncomfortable had a
hungry boa constrictor draped itself in his arms. He mopped his brow
with his sleeve.
  
 
  "Suppose the rest should come," he said in an embarrassed voice.
  
 
  "They're busy. They won't be here until I call them to lunch. Your
eyes," she said, "are like deep mysterious pools."
  
 
  "Sure enough?" said Jonathan with involuntary interest. He began to
recover his nerve.
  
 
  She said, "You're the best looking thing." She rumpled his hair. "I
can't keep my eyes off you."
  
 
  Jonathan put his arm around her gingerly. "Ouch!" He winced. He had
forgotten his sore muscles.
  
 
  "I forgot," said Ann Clotilde in a contrite voice. She tried to rise.
"You're hurt."
  
 
  He pulled her back down. "Not so you could notice it," he grinned.
  
 
  "Well!" came the strident voice of Billy from behind them. "We're
   
   all
   
  glad to hear that!"
  
