And now I had yet another grudge against this blasted spy. Which
reminded me again of Linda. From the looks of things, I wasn't
   
   ever
   
  going to get to her place. By now she was probably in mourning for me
and might even have the Sanitation Staff searching for my remains.
  
 
  As I made the chico, he asked me questions. My name first, and then,
"What do you do for a living?"
  
 
  I thought fast. "I'm an ore-sled dispatcher," I said. That was a lie,
of course, but I'd heard enough about ore-sled dispatching from Linda
to be able to maintain the fiction should he question me further about
it.
  
 
  Actually, I was a gymnast instructor. The subjects I taught included
wrestling, judo and karati—talents I would prefer to disclose to him
in my own fashion, when the time came.
  
 
  He was quiet for a moment. "What about radiation level on the
ore-sleds?"
  
 
  I had no idea what he was talking about, and admitted as much.
  
 
  "When they come back," he said. "How much radiation do they pick up?
Don't you people ever test them?"
  
 
  "Of course not," I told him. I was on secure ground now, with Linda's
information to guide me. "All radiation is cleared from the sleds and
their cargo before they're brought into the building."
  
 
  "I know that," he said impatiently. "But don't you ever check them
before de-radiating them?"
  
 
 
 
  "No. Why should we?"
  
 
  "To find out how far the radiation level outside has dropped."
  
 
  "For what? Who cares about that?"
  
 
  He frowned bitterly. "The same answer," he muttered, more to himself
than to me. "The same answer every time. You people have crawled into
your caves and you're ready to stay in them forever."
  
 
  I looked around at my apartment. "Rather a well-appointed cave," I told
him.
  
 
  "But a cave nevertheless." He leaned toward me, his eyes gleaming with
a fanatical flame. "Don't you ever wish to get Outside?"
  
 
  Incredible! I nearly poured boiling water all over myself. "Outside? Of
course not!"
  
 
  "The same thing," he grumbled, "over and over again. Always the same
stupidity. Listen, you! Do you realize how long it took man to get out
of the caves? The long slow painful creep of progress, for millennia,
before he ever made that first step from the cave?"
  
 
  "I have no idea," I told him.
  
 
  "I'll tell you this," he said belligerently. "A lot longer than it
took for him to turn around and go right back into the cave again." He
started pacing the floor, waving the gun around in an agitated fashion
as he talked. "Is this the
   
   natural
   
  life of man? It is not. Is this
even a
   
   desirable
   
  life for man? It is
   
   definitely
   
  not." He spun back
to face me, pointing the gun at me again, but this time he pointed
it as though it were a finger, not a gun. "Listen, you," he snapped.
"Man was progressing. For all his stupidities and excesses, he was
growing up. His dreams were getting bigger and grander and better all
the time. He was planning to tackle
   
   space
   
  ! The moon first, and then
the planets, and finally the stars. The whole universe was out there,
waiting to be plucked like an apple from a tank. And Man was reaching
out for it." He glared as though daring me to doubt it.
  
