She had been seeing too many of the Terrestrial fictapes from the
library, Skkiru thought resentfully. There was too damn much Terran
influence on this planet. And this new project was the last straw.
  
 
  No longer able to control his rage and grief, he turned a triple
somersault in the air with rage. "Then why was I made a beggar and she
the high priestess? You arranged that purposely, Bbulas. You—"
  
 
  "Now, Skkiru," Bbulas said wearily, for they had been through all this
before, "you know that all the ranks and positions were distributed
by impartial lot, except for mine, and, of course, such jobs as could
carry over from the civilized into the primitive."
  
 
  Bbulas breathed on the spectacles he was wearing, as contact lenses
were not considered backward enough for the kind of planet Snaddra
was now supposed to be, and attempted to wipe them dry on his robe.
However, the thick, jewel-studded embroidery got in his way and so he
was forced to lift the robe and wipe all three of the lenses on the
smooth, soft, spun metal of his top underskirt.
  
 
  "After all," he went on speaking as he wiped, "I have to be high
priest, since I organized this culture and am the only one here
qualified to administer it. And, as the president himself concurred in
these arrangements, I hardly think you—a mere private citizen—have
the right to question them."
  
 
  "Just because you went to school in another solar system," Skkiru said,
whirling with anger, "you think you're so smart!"
  
 
  "I won't deny that I do have educational and cultural advantages
which were, unfortunately, not available to the general populace of
this planet. However, even under the old system, I was always glad to
utilize my superior attainments as Official Dilettante for the good of
all and now—"
  
 
  "Sure, glad to have a chance to rig this whole setup so you could break
up things between Larhgan and me. You've had your eye on her for some
time."
  
 
  Skkiru coiled his antennae at Bbulas, hoping the insult would provoke
him into an unbecoming whirl, but the Dilettante remained calm. One of
the chief outward signs of Terran-type training was self-control and
Bbulas had been thoroughly terranized.
  
 
 
   I hate Terrestrials
   
  , Skkiru said to himself.
   
   I hate Terra.
   
  The
quiver of anxiety had risen up his leg and was coiling and uncoiling
in his stomach. He hoped it wouldn't reach his antennae—if he were
to break down and psonk in front of Larhgan, it would be the final
humiliation.
  
 
  "Skkiru!" the girl exclaimed, rotating gently, for she, like her
fiance—her erstwhile fiance, that was, for the new regime had caused
all such ties to be severed—and every other literate person on the
planet, had received her education at the local university. Although
sound, the school was admittedly provincial in outlook and very poor
in the emotional department. "One would almost think that the lots had
some sort of divine intelligence behind them, because you certainly are
behaving in a beggarly manner!"
  
 
  "And I have already explained to you, Skkiru," Bbulas said, with a
patience much more infuriating than the girl's anger, "that I had no
idea of who was to become my high priestess. The lots chose Larhgan. It
is, as the Earthmen say, kismet."
  
