They walked, mother, father and the two children, smelling the smells,
watching the birds bounce from wall to wall of the valley like
scurrying pebbles and suddenly the father said a strange thing:
  
 
  "Remember?"
  
 
  Remember what? Sim lay cradled. Was it any effort for them to remember
when they'd lived only seven days!
  
 
  The husband and wife looked at each other.
  
 
  "Was it only three days ago?" said the woman, her body shaking, her
eyes closing to think. "I can't believe it. It is so unfair." She
sobbed, then drew her hand across her face and bit her parched lips.
The wind played at her gray hair. "Now is my turn to cry. An hour ago
it was you!"
  
 
  "An hour is half a life."
  
 
  "Come," she took her husband's arm. "Let us look at everything, because
it will be our last looking."
  
 
  "The sun'll be up in a few minutes," said the old man. "We must turn
back now."
  
 
  "Just one more moment," pleaded the woman.
  
 
  "The sun will catch us."
  
 
  "Let it catch me then!"
  
 
  "You don't mean that."
  
 
  "I mean nothing, nothing at all," cried the woman.
  
 
  The sun was coming fast. The green in the valley burnt away. Searing
wind blasted from over the cliffs. Far away where sun bolts hammered
battlements of cliff, the huge stone faces shook their contents; those
avalanches not already powdered down, were now released and fell like
mantles.
  
 
  "Dark!" shouted the father. The girl sprang over the warm floor of the
valley, answering, her hair a black flag behind her. Hands full of
green fruits, she joined them.
  
 
  The sun rimmed the horizon with flame, the air convulsed dangerously
with it, and whistled.
  
 
  The cave people bolted, shouting, picking up their fallen children,
bearing vast loads of fruit and grass with them back to their deep
hideouts. In moments the valley was bare. Except for one small child
someone had forgotten. He was running far out on the flatness, but he
was not strong enough, and the engulfing heat was drifting down from
the cliffs even as he was half across the valley.
  
 
  Flowers were burnt into effigies, grasses sucked back into rocks like
singed snakes, flower seeds whirled and fell in the sudden furnace
blast of wind, sown far into gullies and crannies, ready to blossom at
sunset tonight, and then go to seed and die again.
  
 
  Sim's father watched that child running, alone, out on the floor of
the valley. He and his wife and Dark and Sim were safe in the mouth of
their tunnel.
  
 
  "He'll never make it," said father. "Do not watch him, woman. It's not
a good thing to watch."
  
 
  They turned away. All except Sim, whose eyes had caught a glint of
metal far away. His heart hammered in him, and his eyes blurred.
Far away, atop a low mountain, one of those metal seeds from space
reflected a dazzling ripple of light! It was like one of his
intra-embryo dreams fulfilled! A metal space seed, intact, undamaged,
lying on a mountain! There was his future! There was his hope
for survival! There was where he would go in a few days, when he
was—strange thought—a grown man!
  
 
  The sun plunged into the valley like molten lava.
  
 
  The little running child screamed, the sun burned, and the screaming
stopped.
  
 
  Sim's mother walked painfully, with sudden age, down the tunnel,
paused, reached up, broke off two last icicles that had formed during
the night. She handed one to her husband, kept the other. "We will
drink one last toast. To you, to the children."
  
 
  "To
   
   you
   
  ," he nodded to her. "To the children." They lifted the
icicles. The warmth melted the ice down into their thirsty mouths.
  
