 id="chap02">
  CHAPTER II
  
 If Wishes Came True
  
  “Did you?” Lois interrupted the story to ask excitedly.
“Oh, Judy! Don’t keep us in suspense any
longer. What did you wish?”
  
 
  “Patience,” Judy said with a smile. “I’m coming
to that.”
  
 
  First, she told her friends, she had to think of a
wise wish. There had been so much she wanted in
those early days before the flood. Dora Scott had
been her best friend in Roulsville, but she had moved
away.
  
 
  “You see,” she explained, “I made the mistake of
having just one best friend. There wasn’t anybody
in Dry Brook Hollow. I remember thinking of how
lonely I was and how I wished for a friend or a sister,
  and suddenly a tear splashed in the water. It made
little ripples. I thought I had to wish quickly before
they vanished, and so I began naming the things I
wanted as fast as I could. I’m not sure they were
wise wishes. They seem rather selfish to me, now. I
wasn’t thinking of anybody but me, Judy Bolton,
and what I wanted. It wasn’t until after I began to
think of others that my wishes started to come true.”
  
 
  “But what were they?” Lois insisted.
  
 
  Lorraine seemed unusually quiet and thoughtful.
Judy did not notice the fear in her eyes as she replied
airily, “Oh, didn’t I tell you? I wished for lots
of friends and a sister, and I wished I could marry a
G-man and solve a lot of mysteries and that’s as far
as I got when the ripples vanished. I thought the
spell was broken and so I didn’t wish for anything
more.”
  
 
  “Wasn’t there anything more you wanted?” Lois
asked.
  
 
  “Of course,” replied Judy. “There were lots more
things. I wanted to go places, of course, and keep
pets, and have a nice home, and—”
  
 
  “And your wishes all came true!”
  
 
  “Every one of them,” Judy agreed, “even the one
about the sister. You see, it wasn’t a baby sister I
wanted. It was a sister near my own age. That
seemed impossible at the time, but the future did
hold a sister for me.”
  
 
  “It held one for me, too,” Lois said, squeezing
Lorraine’s hand under the table. “Don’t you think
sisters should tell each other their problems, Judy?”
  
 
  “Honey and I always do,” she replied “but then
it was different. I didn’t know I would marry Peter
or that he would become a G-man, and he didn’t
know he had a sister. It is strange, isn’t it? But the
strangest thing of all was the fountain itself.”
  
 
  “Why?” asked Lorraine. “Do you still think it was
enchanted?”
  
 
  Lois laughed at this, but Judy was serious as she
answered, “I was still little girl enough to think so
at the time. I wandered around, growing very
drowsy. Then I found a hammock and climbed into
it. I must have gone to sleep, because I remember
waking up and wondering if the voice in the fountain
had been a dream.”
  
 
  “A hammock?” Lois questioned. “Are you sure it
wasn’t a flying carpet?”
  
 
  “No, it was a hammock all right,” Judy assured
her, laughing. “It was hung between two trees in a
beautiful garden all enclosed in rose trellises thick
with roses. Did I tell you it was June?”
  
 
  “All the year around?”
  
 
  Again Lois laughed. But Lorraine said abruptly,
“Let’s not talk about rose gardens in June. It’s a long
way from June to December.”
  
 
  “Do you mean a garden changes? I know,” Judy
said, “but I think this one would be beautiful at any
time of the year. There were rhododendrons, too,
and I don’t know how many different kinds of evergreens.
I explored the garden all around the fountain.”
  
 
  “And then what happened?” Lorraine urged her.
  
 
  “Yes, yes. Go on,” entreated Lois. “I didn’t dream
you’d kept anything that exciting a secret. Why didn’t
you try to solve the mystery?”
  
 
  “I think I would have tried,” Judy admitted, “if
I had been older or more experienced. I really should
have investigated it more thoroughly and learned the
secret of the fountain. But after the ripples went
away it didn’t speak to me any more, and I didn’t
really think it had heard my wishes. I was still wishing
for a friend when I met you, Lois. It did seem
impossible for us to be friends at first, didn’t it? Lorraine
was your friend.”
  
 
  “I did make trouble for you,” Lorraine remembered.
“It was all because of my foolish jealousy.”
  
 
  “It was nothing compared to the trouble caused by
the Roulsville flood,” declared Judy. “After that
things started happening so fast that I completely
forgot about the fountain. Honestly, Lois, I don’t
believe I thought about it again until after we moved
to Farringdon and I walked up to your door and
saw the fountain on your lawn.”
  
 
  “The Farringdon-Pett puddle, I always called it,”
Lois said with a giggle. “I’ve seen lots nicer fountains.”
  
 
  “You have?” asked Judy. “Then maybe you’ve
seen the one I’ve been telling you about. I think the
picture of it is still in the attic. Come on up and I’ll
show you.”
  
 
  Lois and Lorraine had finished their dessert while
Judy was telling them the story of the fountain.
Somehow, she wasn’t hungry for hers. She had
tasted it too often while she was making it.
  
 
  “I’ll leave it for Blackberry,” she decided.
  
 
  Lois watched in amusement as the cat lapped up
the chocolate pudding after Judy had mixed it generously
with cream.
  
 
  “Sometimes,” Judy said fondly, “Blackberry thinks
he’s a person. He eats everything we eat, including
lettuce. Do you mind if he comes with us, Lorraine?
He wants to explore the attic, too.”
  
 
  “He’ll remember he’s a cat fast enough if there
are any mice up there,” Lois said with a giggle.
  
 
  Leaving the table, they all started upstairs with
the cat bounding ahead of them. In modernizing her
grandparents’ house to suit her own and Peter’s
tastes, Judy had seen to it that the old stair door was
removed. But there was still a door closing off the
narrower stairs that led to the attic. Blackberry
reached it first and yowled for Judy to open it.
  
 
  “He can read my mind. He always knows where
I’m going,” Judy said as the door creaked open and
the cat shot through it. A moment later a weird rolling
noise came from the floor above.
  
 
  “Come on. There’s nothing up here to be afraid
of,” Judy urged her friends.
  
 
  “Maybe not, but I’m beginning to get the shivers,”
confessed Lois as she followed Judy to the sewing
room at the top of the last flight of stairs.
  
 
  “So am I,” Lorraine admitted. “I’m not superstitious
about black cats, but they are creepy. Does
Blackberry have to roll spools across the floor?”
  
 
  “Now he thinks he’s a kitten,” laughed Judy.
Pausing at still another door that led to the darker
part of the attic, she turned and said mysteriously,
“Up here we can all turn back the clock. Does anybody
care to explore the past?”
  
 
  The exploration began enthusiastically with Judy
relating still more of what she remembered about
the fountain.
  
 
  “When I told Grandma about it she laughed and
said I must have dreamed it. She said if wishes came
true that easily she’d be living in a castle. But would
she?” Judy wondered. “When I first remember this
house she was still burning kerosene lamps like those
you see on that high shelf by the window. I think
she and Grandpa like the way they lived without
any modern conveniences or anything.”
  
 
  “I think so, too,” Lois agreed, looking around the
old attic with a shiver. “It is strange they both died
the same winter, isn’t it?”
  
 
  “Maybe they wanted it that way. Maybe they
wished neither of them would outlive the other. If
they did wish in the fountain,” Judy went on more
thoughtfully, “I’m sure that was one of their wishes.
Another could have been to keep the good old days,
as Grandma used to call them. That one came true
in a way. They did manage to keep a little of the
past when they kept all these old things. That’s what
I meant about turning back the clock.”
  
 
  “If wishes came true I’d like to turn it back a little
myself,” Lorraine began. “It would be nice if things
were the way they used to be when I trusted
Arthur—”
  
 
  “Don’t you trust him now?” Judy asked.
  
 
  Afterwards she was sorry for the interruption. Lois
and Judy both questioned Lorraine, but that was all
she would say. Judy wondered, as they searched
through the old magazines, what was wrong. Lorraine
was of a jealous disposition. Was the green-eyed
monster coming between her and her handsome husband,
Arthur Farringdon-Pett? Until now they had
seemed blissfully happy. But there was no happiness
in Lorraine’s face as she gazed at a picture of one of
the fountains and then said in a tight little voice, “It
is. It’s the very same one.”
  
 
  “But that’s the picture I’ve been searching for!”
Judy said eagerly. “Do you know where it is?”
  
 
  “I can’t be sure. But if it ever was enchanted, I’m
sure it isn’t now. Let’s go,” Lorraine said suddenly
to Lois. Judy knew she was suggesting a fast trip home.
But, apparently, Lois did not understand it that way.
If she did, she pretended not to.
  
 
  “Where?” she asked. “To the fountain? I’d love
to, wouldn’t you, Judy?”
  
 
  “I certainly would,” Judy replied enthusiastically.
“Do you recognize it, too?”
  
 
  “I think so,” Lois answered after studying a little
more closely the picture they had found. “It looks
like the fountain on the Brandt estate.”
  
 
  “The department store Brandts?” Judy questioned.
“Then my grandparents must have driven old Fanny
all the way to Farringdon.”
  
 
  “Not quite all the way,” Lorraine objected. “The
Brandts own that stretch of woods just before you
come into the city. You’ve passed it lots of times.”
  
 
  “Of course,” agreed Judy. She put the magazine
back in its place under the eaves and turned eagerly
to her friends. “I do remember a road turning off
into the woods and going on uphill,” she told them.
“I never thought it led to a house, though. There
isn’t even a gate. Could that be the road my grandparents
took?”
  
 
  “Why don’t we take it ourselves and find out?”
Lois suggested.
  
 
