As the meal boisterously progressed, he regained sufficient courage
to glance timidly around. Directly across the table sat a striking,
grey-eyed girl whose brown hair was coiled severely about her head. She
looked to him like a stenographer. He watched horrified as she seized
a whole roast fowl, tore it apart with her fingers, gnawed a leg. She
caught him staring at her and rolled her eyes at him. He returned his
gaze to his plate.
  
 
  Olga said: "Hey, Sultan."
  
 
  He shuddered, but looked up questioningly.
  
 
  She said, "How's the fish?"
  
 
  "Good," he mumbled between a mouthful. "Where did you get it?"
  
 
  "Caught it," said Olga. "The stream's full of 'em. I'll take you
fishing tomorrow." She winked at him so brazenly that he choked on a
bone.
  
 
  "Heaven forbid," he said.
  
 
  "How about coming with me to gather fruit?" cried the green-eyed
blonde; "you great big handsome man."
  
 
  "Or me?" cried another. And the table was in an uproar.
  
 
  The rawboned woman who had summoned them to dinner, pounded the table
until the cups and plates danced. Jonathan had gathered that she was
called Billy.
  
 
  "Quiet!" She shrieked in her loud strident voice. "Let him be. He can't
go anywhere for a few days. He's just been through a wreck. He needs
rest." She turned to Jonathan who had shrunk down in his chair. "How
about some roast?" she said.
  
 
  "No." He pushed back his plate with a sigh. "If I only had a smoke."
  
 
  Olga gave her unruly black hair a flirt. "Isn't that just like a man?"
  
 
  "I wouldn't know," said the green-eyed blonde. "I've forgotten what
they're like."
  
 
  Billy said, "How badly wrecked is your ship?"
  
 
  "It's strewn all over the landscape," he replied sleepily.
  
 
  "Is there any chance of patching it up?"
  
 
  He considered the question. More than anything else, he decided, he
wanted to sleep. "What?" he said.
  
 
  "Is there any possibility of repairing your ship?" repeated Billy.
  
 
  "Not outside the space docks."
  
 
  They expelled their breath, but not for an instant did they relax
the barrage of their eyes. He shifted position in embarrassment. The
movement pulled his muscles like a rack. Furthermore, an overpowering
lassitude was threatening to pop him off to sleep before their eyes.
  
 
  "You look exhausted," said Ann.
  
 
  Jonathan dragged himself back from the edge of sleep. "Just tired," he
mumbled. "Haven't had a good night's rest since I left Mars." Indeed
it was only by the most painful effort that he kept awake at all. His
eyelids drooped lower and lower.
  
 
  "First it's tobacco," said Olga; "now he wants to sleep. Twenty-seven
girls and he wants to sleep."
  
 
  "He is asleep," said the green-eyed blonde.
  
