Chip stared at his friend bewilderedly for a moment. Then he grinned.
"Hey—I must be getting slightly whacky in my old age. I stand here
with an unopened bottle in my hands and hear things! For a minute I
thought you said 'Lorelei.' The Lorelei, my space-cop friend, is a
myth. An old Teutonic myth about a beautiful damsel who sits out in
the middle of a sea on a treacherous rock, combing her golden locks,
warbling and luring her fascinated admirers to destruction."
  
 
  He grunted. "A dirty trick, if you ask me. Catch a snort of this
alleged Scotch, pal, and I'll torture your eardrums with the whole, sad
story." He started to sing. "'
   
   Ich weiss nicht was soll es bedeuten
   
  —'"
  
 
  The Patrolman laid a hand on his arm, silenced him.
  
 
  "It's not funny, Chip. You've described the Lorelei exactly. That's
how she got her name. An incredibly beautiful woman who wantonly lures
space-mariners to their death.
  
 
  "The only difference is that her 'rock' is an asteroid somewhere in
the Belt—and she does not sing, she calls! She began exercising
her vicious appeal about two months ago, Earth reckoning. Since
then, no less than a dozen spacecraft—freighters, liners, even one
Patrolship—have fallen prey to her wiles. Their crews have been
brutally murdered, their cargos stolen."
  
 
  "Wait a minute!" interrupted Chip shrewdly. "How do you know about her
if the crews have been murdered?"
  
 
  "She has a habit of locking the controls," explained Haldane, "and
setting ravaged ships adrift. Apparently there is no room on her
hideout—wherever it is—for empty hulks. One of these ships was
salvaged by a courageous cabin-boy who hid from the Lorelei and her
pirate band beneath a closetful of soiled linens in the laundry. He
described her. His description goes perfectly with less accurate
glimpses seen over the visiphones of several score spacecraft!"
  
 
  Chip said soberly, "So it's no joke, eh, pal? Sorry I popped off. I
thought you were pulling my leg. Where do
   
   I
   
  come into this mess,
though?"
  
 
  "Ekalastron!" grunted Johnny succinctly. "A jackpot prize for any
corsair! And you
   
   advertised
   
  a cargo of it over the etherwaves! The
Lorelei will be waiting for you with her tongue hanging out. The only
thing for you to do, kid, is go back to Jupiter or Io as fast as you
can get there. Make the Patrol give you a convoy—"
  
 
  A sudden light danced in Chip Warren's eyes. It was a light Syd Palmer
would have groaned to see—for it usually presaged trouble. It was a
bright, hard, reckless light.
  
 
  "Hold your jets, Johnny!" drawled Chip. "Aren't you forgetting one
thing? In a couple more hours, I can face the Lorelei and her whole
mob—and be damned to them! She can't touch the
   
   Chickadee
   
  , because
it's being plated right now!"
  
 
  Haldane snapped his fingers in quick remembrance.
  
 
  "By thunder, you're right! Her shells will ricochet off the
   
   Chickadee's
   
  hull like hail off a tin roof. Chip, are you in any hurry
to reach Earth? I thought not. What do you say we go after the Lorelei
   
   together
   
  ! I'll swear you in as a Deputy Patrolman; we'll take the
   
   Chickadee
   
  and—"
  
 
  "It's a deal!" declared Chip promptly. "You got any idea where this
Lorelei's hangout is?"
  
 
  "That's why I'm here on Danae. I got a tip that one of the Lorelei's
men put in here for supplies. I hoped maybe I could single him
out somehow, follow him when he jetted for his base, and in that
way—
   
   Chip! Look out!
   
  "
  
