Being a beggar, Skkiru discovered, did give him certain small,
momentary advantages over those who had been alloted higher ranks.
For one thing, it was quite in character for him to tread curiously
upon the strangers' heels all the way to the temple—a ramshackle
affair, but then it had been run up in only three days—where the
official reception was to be held. The principal difficulty was that,
because of his equipment, he had a little trouble keeping himself from
overshooting the strangers. And though Bbulas might frown menacingly at
him—and not only for his forwardness—that was in character on both
sides, too.
  
 
  Nonetheless, Skkiru could not reconcile himself to his beggarhood, no
matter how much he tried to comfort himself by thinking at least he
wasn't a pariah like the unfortunate metal-workers who had to stand
segregated from the rest by a chain of their own devising—a poetic
thought, that was, but well in keeping with his beggarhood. Beggars
were often poets, he believed, and poets almost always beggars. Since
metal-working was the chief industry of Snaddra, this had provided the
planet automatically with a large lowest caste. Bbulas had taken the
easy way out.
  
 
  Skkiru swallowed the last of the chocolate and regarded the "high
priest" with a simple-minded mendicant's grin. However, there were
volcanic passions within him that surged up from his toes when, as the
wind and rain whipped through his scanty coverings, he remembered the
snug underskirts Bbulas was wearing beneath his warm gown. They were
metal, but they were solid. All the garments visible or potentially
visible were of woven metal, because, although there was cloth on the
planet, it was not politic for the Earthmen to discover how heavily the
Snaddrath depended upon imports.
  
 
  As the Earthmen reached the temple, Larhgan now appeared to join Bbulas
at the head of the long flight of stairs that led to it. Although
Skkiru had seen her in her priestly apparel before, it had not made
the emotional impression upon him then that it did now, when, standing
there, clad in beauty, dignity and warm clothes, she bade the newcomers
welcome in several thousand words not too well chosen for her by
Bbulas—who fancied himself a speech-writer as well as a speech-maker,
for there was no end to the man's conceit.
  
 
  The difference between her magnificent garments and his own miserable
rags had their full impact upon Skkiru at this moment. He saw the gulf
that had been dug between them and, for the first time in his short
life, he felt the tormenting pangs of caste distinction. She looked so
lovely and so remote.
  
 
  "... and so you are most welcome to Snaddra, men of Earth," she was
saying in her melodious voice. "Our resources may be small but our
hearts are large, and what little we have, we offer with humility and
with love. We hope that you will enjoy as long and as happy a stay here
as you did on Nemeth...."
  
 
  Cyril looked at Raoul, who, however, seemed too absorbed in
contemplating Larhgan's apparently universal charms to pay much
attention to the expression on his companion's face.
  
 
  "... and that you will carry our affection back to all the peoples of
the Galaxy."
  
