 
 
   THE STAR-SENT KNAVES
   
 
 
  BY KEITH LAUMER
  
 
  Illustrated by Gaughan
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Worlds of Tomorrow June 1963
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  When the Great Galactic Union first encounters
   
  Earth ... is this what is going to happen?
  
 
 
  I
  
 
  Clyde W. Snithian was a bald eagle of a man, dark-eyed, pot-bellied,
with the large, expressive hands of a rug merchant. Round-shouldered
in a loose cloak, he blinked small reddish eyes at Dan Slane's
travel-stained six foot one.
  
 
  "Kelly here tells me you've been demanding to see me." He nodded toward
the florid man at his side. He had a high, thin voice, like something
that needed oiling. "Something about important information regarding
safeguarding my paintings."
  
 
  "That's right, Mr. Snithian," Dan said. "I believe I can be of great
help to you."
  
 
  "Help how? If you've got ideas of bilking me...." The red eyes bored
into Dan like hot pokers.
  
 
  "Nothing like that, sir. Now, I know you have quite a system of guards
here—the papers are full of it—"
  
 
  "Damned busybodies! Sensation-mongers! If it wasn't for the press,
I'd have no concern for my paintings today!"
  
 
  "Yes sir. But my point is, the one really important spot has been left
unguarded."
  
 
  "Now, wait a minute—" Kelly started.
  
 
  "What's that?" Snithian cut in.
  
 
  "You have a hundred and fifty men guarding the house and grounds day
and night—"
  
 
  "Two hundred and twenty-five," Kelly snapped.
  
 
  "—but no one at all in the vault with the paintings," Slane finished.
  
 
  "Of course not," Snithian shrilled. "Why should I post a man in the
vault? It's under constant surveillance from the corridor outside."
  
 
  "The Harriman paintings were removed from a locked vault," Dan said.
"There was a special seal on the door. It wasn't broken."
  
 
  "By the saints, he's right," Kelly exclaimed. "Maybe we ought to have a
man in that vault."
  
 
  "Another idiotic scheme to waste my money," Snithian snapped. "I've
made you responsible for security here, Kelly! Let's have no more
nonsense. And throw this nincompoop out!" Snithian turned and stalked
away, his cloak flapping at his knees.
  
 
  "I'll work cheap," Dan called after him as Kelly took his arm. "I'm an
art lover."
  
 
  "Never mind that," Kelly said, escorting Dan along the corridor. He
turned in at an office and closed the door.
  
 
  "Now, as the old buzzard said, I'm responsible for security here. If
those pictures go, my job goes with them. Your vault idea's not bad.
Just how cheap would you work?"
  
 
  "A hundred dollars a week," Dan said promptly. "Plus expenses," he
added.
  
 
  Kelly nodded. "I'll fingerprint you and run a fast agency check. If
you're clean, I'll put you on, starting tonight. But keep it quiet."
  
