  The CONJURER of VENUS
  
 
  By CONAN T. TROY
  
 
 
   A world-famed Earth scientist had disappeared on Venus.
    
   When Johnson found him, he found too the secret to that
    
   globe-shaking mystery—the fabulous Room of The Dreaming.
   
 
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Planet Stories November 1952.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  The city dripped with rain. Crossing the street toward the dive,
Johnson got rain in his eyes, his nose, and his ears. That was the way
with the rain here. It came at you from all directions. There had been
occasions when Johnson had thought the rain was falling straight up.
Otherwise, how had the insides of his pants gotten wet?
  
 
  On Venus, everything came at you from all directions, it seemed to
Johnson. Opening the door of the joint, it was noise instead of rain
that came at him, the wild frantic beat of a Venusian rhumba, the
notes pounding and jumping through the smoke and perfume clouded room.
Feeling states came at him, intangible, but to his trained senses,
perceptible emotional nuances of hate, love, fear, and rage. But mostly
love. Since this place had been designed to excite the senses of both
humans and Venusians, the love feelings were heavily tinged with
straight sex. He sniffed at them, feeling them somewhere inside of him,
aware of them but aware also that here was apprehension, and plain fear.
  
 
  Caldwell, sitting in a booth next to the door, glanced up as Johnson
entered but neither Caldwell's facial expression or his eyes revealed
that he had ever seen this human before. Nor did Johnson seem to
recognize Caldwell.
  
 
  "Is the mighty human wanting liquor, a woman or dreams?" His voice
was all soft syllables of liquid sound. The Venusian equivalent of a
headwaiter was bowing to him.
  
 
  "I'll have a tarmur to start," Johnson said. "How are the dreams
tonight?"
  
 
  "Ze vill be the most wonserful of all sonight. The great Unger hisself
will be here to do ze dreaming. There is no ozzer one who has quite
his touch at dreaming, mighty one." The headwaiter spread his hands
in a gesture indicating ecstasy. "It is my great regret that I must do
ze work tonight instead of being wiz ze dreamers. Ah, ze great Unger
hisself!" The headwaiter kissed the tips of his fingers.
  
 
  "Um," Johnson said. "The great Unger!" His voice expressed surprise,
just the right amount of it. "I'll have a tarmur to start but when does
the dreaming commence?"
  
 
  "In one zonar or maybe less. Shall I make ze reservations for ze mighty
one?" As he was speaking, the headwaiter was deftly conducting Johnson
to the bar.
  
 
  "Not just yet," Johnson said. "See me a little later."
  
 
  "But certainly." The headwaiter was gone into the throng. Johnson was
at the bar. Behind it, a Venusian was bowing to him. "Tarmur," Johnson
said. The green drink was set before him. He held it up to the light,
admiring the slow rise of the tiny golden bubbles in it. To him,
watching the bubbles rise was perhaps more important than drinking
itself.
  
 
  "Beautiful, aren't they?" a soft voice said. He glanced to his right.
A girl had slid into the stool beside him. She wore a green dress cut
very low at the throat. Her skin had the pleasant tan recently on
Earth. Her hair was a shade of abundant brown and her eyes were blue,
the color of the skies of Earth. A necklace circled her throat and
below the necklace ... Johnson felt his pulse quicken, for two reasons.
Women such as this one had been quickening the pulse of men since the
days of Adam. The second reason concerned her presence here in this
place where no woman in her right mind ever came unescorted. Her eyes
smiled up at him unafraid. Didn't she know there were men present here
in this space port city who would snatch her bodily from the bar
stool and carry her away for sleeping purposes? And Venusians were
here who would cut her pretty throat for the sake of the necklace that
circled it?
  
 
  "They
   
   are
   
  beautiful," he said, smiling.
  
 
  "Thank you."
  
 
  "I was referring to the bubbles."
  
 
  "You were talking about my eyes," she answered, unperturbed.
  
 
  "How did you know? I mean...."
  
 
  "I am very knowing," the girl said, smiling.
  
 
  "Are you sufficiently knowing to be here?"
  
 
  For an instant, as if doubt crossed her mind, the smile flickered. Then
it came again, stronger. "Aren't you here?"
  
 
  Johnson choked as bubbles from the tarmur seemed to go suddenly up his
nose. "My dear child ..." he sputtered.
  
 
  "I am not a child," she answered with a firm sureness that left no
doubt in his mind that she knew what she was saying. "And my name is
Vee Vee."
  
 
  "Vee Vee? Um. That is...."
  
 
  "Don't you think it's a nice name?"
  
 
  "I certainly do. Probably the rest of it is even nicer."
  
 
  "There is no more of it. Just Vee Vee. Like Topsy, I just grew."
  
