He rather liked Ives, though. Sometimes the two of them would be alone
together; then Ives would tell Martin of the future world he had come
from. The picture drawn by Raymond and Ninian had not been entirely
accurate, Ives admitted. True, there was no war or poverty on Earth
proper, but that was because there were only a couple of million people
left on the planet. It was an enclave for the highly privileged, highly
interbred aristocracy, to which Martin's descendants belonged by virtue
of their distinguished ancestry.
  
 
  "Rather feudal, isn't it?" Martin asked.
  
 
  Ives agreed, adding that the system had, however, been deliberately
planned, rather than the result of haphazard natural development.
Everything potentially unpleasant, like the mercantiles, had been
deported.
  
 
  "Not only natives livin' on the other worlds," Ives said as the two
of them stood at the ship's rail, surrounded by the limitless expanse
of some ocean or other. "People, too. Mostly lower classes, except
for officials and things. With wars and want and suffering," he added
regretfully, "same as in your day.... Like now, I mean," he corrected
himself. "Maybe it
   
   is
   
  worse, the way Conrad thinks. More planets
for us to make trouble on. Three that were habitable aren't any more.
Bombed. Very thorough job."
  
 
  "Oh," Martin murmured, trying to sound shocked, horrified—interested,
even.
  
 
  "Sometimes I'm not altogether sure Conrad was wrong," Ives said, after
a pause. "Tried to keep us from getting to the stars, hurting the
people—I expect you could call them people—there. Still—" he smiled
shamefacedly—"couldn't stand by and see my own way of life destroyed,
could I?"
  
 
  "I suppose not," Martin said.
  
 
  "Would take moral courage. I don't have it. None of us does, except
Conrad, and even he—" Ives looked out over the sea. "Must be a better
way out than Conrad's," he said without conviction. "And everything
will work out all right in the end. Bound to. No sense to—to anything,
if it doesn't." He glanced wistfully at Martin.
  
 
  "I hope so," said Martin. But he couldn't hope; he couldn't feel; he
couldn't even seem to care.
  
 
  During all this time, Conrad still did not put in an appearance. Martin
had gotten to be such a crack shot with the ray pistol that he almost
wished his descendant would show up, so there would be some excitement.
But he didn't come. And Martin got to thinking....
  
 
  He always felt that if any of the cousins could have come to realize
the basic flaw in the elaborate plan they had concocted, it would have
been Ives. However, when the yacht touched at Tierra del Fuego one
bitter winter, Ives took a severe chill. They sent for a doctor from
the future—one of the descendants who had been eccentric enough to
take a medical degree—but he wasn't able to save Ives. The body was
buried in the frozen ground at Ushuaia, on the southern tip of the
continent, a hundred years or more before the date of his birth.
  
 
  A great many of the cousins turned up at the simple ceremony. All were
dressed in overwhelming black and showed a great deal of grief. Raymond
read the burial service, because they didn't dare summon a clerical
cousin from the future; they were afraid he might prove rather stuffy
about the entire undertaking.
  
 
  "He died for all of us," Raymond concluded his funeral eulogy over
Ives, "so his death was not in vain."
  
 
  But Martin disagreed.
  
