Danae was, thought Chip as he strolled along briskly toward the town
beyond the spaceport, a most presentable hunk of rock. Nice
   
   lucentite
   
  Dome ... good atmo ... a fine artificial grav system based on Terra
normal. It seemed to be a popular little fueling-stop, too, for its
cradle-bins were laden with vessels from every planet in the System,
and as he gained the main drag he found himself rubbing shoulders
with citizens of every known world. Lumbering, albino Venusians,
petal-headed Martians, Jovian runts, greenies from far Uranus,
Earthman—all were here.
  
 
  Quite a likely place, he thought happily, to chuck a brawl. A
brilliantly gleaming xenon sign before him welcomed visitors to:
  
 
  XU'UL'S SOLAREST
   
  Barroom—Casino—Dancing
   
  100—Lovely Hostesses—100
  
 
  He entered, and was immediately deluged by a bevy of charm-gals vying
for the privilege of: (1) helping him beat the roulette wheel; (2)
helping him drink the house dry, and/or (3) separating him as swiftly
as possible from the credits in his money belt.
  
 
  Chip shook them off, gently but firmly. He wanted a good time, true;
but he wanted it solo. The main cabaret was too crowded; he passed
through it and another equally blatant room wherein twoscore Venusians
were straining the structure with a native "sing-stomp," and ended up
finally, with a sigh of relief, in a small, dimly-lighted private bar
unfrequented by anyone save a bored and listless Martian bartender.
  
 
  The chrysanthemum-pated son of the desertland roused himself as Chip
entered, rustled his petals and piped a ready greeting.
  
 
  "Welcoom, ssirr! Trrink, pleasse?"
  
 
  This was more like it! Chip grinned.
  
 
  "Scotch," he said. "
   
   Old Spaceman.
   
  And let's have a new bottle, Curly.
None of that doctored swill."
  
 
  "Of courrsse, ssirr!" piped the bar-keep aggrievedly. He pushed a
bottle across the mahogany; Chip flipped a golden credit-token back at
him.
  
 
  "Tell me when I've guzzled this, and I'll start work on another." He
took a deep, appreciative sniff. "And don't let any of those dizzy
dolls in here," he ordered. "I've got a lot of back drinking to catch
up on, and I don't want to be disturbed—
   
   Hey!
   
  "
  
 
  In his alarm, he almost dropped the bottle. For the door suddenly burst
open, and in its frame loomed a figure in Space Patrol blues. A finger
pointed in Chip's direction and a bull-o'-Bashan voice roared:
  
 
  "
   
   Stop!
   
  Bartender—grab that man! He's a desperate criminal, wanted on
four planets for murder!"
  
