Kane stalked into the room at that moment, his face red with anger.
"
   
   Do you know where we are?
   
  " he demanded. "When those damned aliens
got me in that room, they explained what this is all about. We're
guinea pigs!"
  
 
  "Did they use telepathy to explain?" Verana asked. I suddenly
remembered that she was a member of a club that investigated
extra-sensory perception with the hope of learning how it operated. She
was probably sorry she hadn't been contacted telepathically.
  
 
  "Yeah," Kane replied. "I saw all sorts of mental pictures and they
explained what they did to us. Those damned aliens want us for their
zoo!"
  
 
  "Start at the beginning," I suggested.
  
 
  He flashed an angry glance at me, but seemed to calm somewhat. "This
ship was made by a race from another galaxy. Thousands of years ago,
they came to Earth in their spaceships when men were primitives living
in caves. They wanted to know what our civilization would be like
when we developed space flight. So they put this ship on the Moon as a
sort of booby-trap. They put it there with the idea that when we made
spaceships and went to the Moon, sooner or later, we'd find the ship
and enter it—
   
   like rabbits in a snare!
   
  "
  
 
  "And now the booby-trap is on its way home," I guessed.
  
 
  "Yeah, this ship is taking us to their planet and they're going to keep
us there while they study us."
  
 
  "How long will the trip take?" I asked.
  
 
  "Six months. We'll be bottled up in this crate for six whole damned
months! And when we get there, we'll be prisoners!"
  
 
  Marie's hypnotic spell was fading and once more her face showed the
terror inside her.
  
 
  "Don't feel so bad," I told Kane. "It could be worse. It should be
interesting to see an alien race. We'll have our wives with us—"
  
 
  "Maybe they'll dissect us!" Marie gasped.
  
 
  Verana scoffed. "A race intelligent enough to build a ship like this? A
race that was traveling between the stars when we were living in caves?
Dissection is primitive. They won't
   
   have to
   
  dissect us in order to
study us. They'll have more advanced methods."
  
 
  "Maybe we can reach the ship's controls somehow," Kane said excitedly.
"We've got to try to change the ship's course and get back to the
Moon!"
  
 
  "It's impossible. Don't waste your time." The voice had no visible
source and seemed to fill the room.
  
