Unger stood in the middle of the spot of light.
  
 
  Johnson felt his chest muscles contract, then relax. Vee Vee's fingers
sought his arm, not to harm him but running to him for protection. He
caught the flutter of her breathing. On his left, Caldwell stiffened
and became a rock.
  
 
  Johnson had not seen Unger appear. One second the circle of light
had been empty, the next second the Venusian, smiling with all the
impassivity of a bland Buddha, was in the light. He weighed three
hundred pounds if he weighed an ounce, he was clad in a long robe
that would impede movement. He had appeared in the bright beam of the
spotlight as if by magic.
  
 
  Vee Vee's fingers dug deeper into Johnson's arm. "How—"
  
 
  "Shhh. Nobody knows."
  
 
  No human knew the answer to that trick. Unless perhaps Martin—
  
 
  Unger bowed. A little ripple of something that was not quite sound
passed through the audience. Unger bowed again. He stretched himself
flat on the mat, adjusted the rest to support his head, and apparently
went to sleep. Johnson saw the Dreamer's eyes close, watched the chest
take on the even, regular rhythm of sleep.
  
 
  The music changed, a slow dreamy tempo crept into it. Vee Vee's fingers
dug at Johnson's arm as if they were trying to dig under his hide for
protection. She was shivering. He reached for her hand, patted it. She
drew closer to him.
  
 
  A few minutes earlier, she had been a very certain young woman, able
to take care of herself, and handle anyone around her. Now she was
suddenly uncertain, suddenly scared. In the Room of the Dreaming, she
had suddenly become a frightened child looking for protection.
  
 
  "Haven't you ever seen this before?" he whispered.
  
 
  "N—o." She shivered again. "Oh, Johnny...."
  
 
  Under the circle of light pouring down from the ceiling, the Dreamer
lay motionless. Johnson found himself with the tendency to hold his
breath. He was waiting, waiting, waiting—for what? The whole situation
was senseless, silly, but under its apparent lack of coherence, he
sensed a pattern. Perhaps the path to the far-off stars passed this
way, through such scented and musical and impossible places as these
Rooms of the Dreamers. Certainly Martin thought so. And Johnson himself
was not prepared to disagree.
  
 
  Around him, he saw that the Venusians were already going ... going ...
going.... Some of them were already gone. This was an old experience
to them. They went rapidly. Humans went more slowly.
  
 
  The Venusian watchers had relaxed. They looked as if they were asleep,
perhaps in a hypnotic trance, lulled into this state by the music
and the perfume, and by something else. It was this something else
that sent Johnson's thoughts pounding. The Venusians were like opium
smokers. But he was not smoking opium. He was not in a hypnotic trance.
He was wide awake and very much alert. He was ...
  
 
 
   watching a space ship float in an endless void
   
  .
  
 
  As Unger had come into the spotlight, so the space ship had come into
his vision, out of nowhere, out of nothingness. The room, the Dreamer,
the sound of the music, the sweetness of the perfume, Vee Vee and
Caldwell were gone. They were no longer in his reality. They were not
in the range of his vision. It was as if they did not exist. Yet he
knew they did exist, the memory of them, and of other things, was out
on the periphery of his universe, perhaps of
   
   the
   
  universe.
  
 
  All he saw was the space ship.
  
 
  It was a wonderful thing, perhaps the most beautiful sight he had seen
in his life. At the sight of it, a deep glow sprang inside of him.
  
 
  Back when he had been a kid he had dreamed of flight to the far-off
stars. He had made models of space ships. In a way, they had shaped his
destiny, had made him what he was. They had brought him where he was
this night, to the Dream Room of a Venusian tavern.
  
 
  The vision of the space ship floating in the void entranced and
thrilled him. Something told him that this was real; that here and now
he was making contact with a vision that belonged to time.
  
 
  He started to his feet. Fingers gripped his arm.
  
 
  "Please, darling. You startled me. Don't move." Vee Vee's voice. Who
was Vee Vee?
  
 
  The fingers dug into his arm. Pain came up in him. The space ship
vanished. He looked with startled eyes at Vee Vee, at the Dream Room,
at Unger, dreaming on the mat under the spot.
  
 
  "You ... you startled me," Vee Vee whispered. She released the grip on
his arm.
  
 
  "But, didn't you see it?"
  
 
  "See what?"
  
 
  "The space ship!"
  
 
  "No. No." She seemed startled and a little terrified and half asleep.
"I ... I was watching something else. When you moved I broke contact
with my dream."
  
 
  "Your dream?"
  
 
  He asked a question but she did not answer it. "Sit down, darling,
and look at your damned space ship." Her voice was a taut whisper of
sound in the darkened room. Johnson settled down. A glance to his left
told him that Caldwell was still sitting like a chunk of stone.... The
Venusians were quiet. The music had shifted. A slow languorous beat
of hidden drums filled the room. There was another sound present, a
high-speed whirring. It was, somehow, a familiar sound, but Johnson had
not heard it before in this place.
  
 
  He thought about the space ship he had seen.
  
 
  The vision would not come.
  
 
  He shook his head and tried again.
  
 
  Beside him, Vee Vee was silent, her face ecstatic, like the face of a
woman in love.
  
 
  He tried again for the space ship.
  
 
  It would not come.
  
 
  Anger came up instead.
  
 
  Somehow he had the impression that the whirring sound which kept
intruding into his consciousness was stopping the vision.
  
 
  So far as he could tell, he was the only one present who was not
dreaming, who was not in a state of trance.
  
 
  His gaze went to Unger, the Dreamer....
  
 
  Cold flowed over him.
  
 
  Unger was slowly rising from the mat.
  
 
  The bland face and the body in the robe were slowly floating upward!
  
 
 
  III
  
 
  An invisible force seemed to twitch at Johnson's skin, nipping it here
and there with a multitude of tiny pinches, like invisible fleas biting
him.
  
 
  "This is it!" a voice whispered in his mind. "This is what you came to
Venus to see. This ... this...." The first voice went into silence.
Another voice took its place.
  
 
  "This is another damned vision!" the second voice said. "This ...
this is something that is not real, that is not possible! No Venusian
Dreamer, and no one else, can levitate, can defy the laws of gravity,
can float upward toward the ceiling. Your damned eyes are tricking you!"
  
 
  "We are not tricking you!" the eyes hotly insisted. "It is happening.
We are seeing it. We are reporting accurately to you. That Venusian
Buddha is levitating. We, your eyes, do not lie to you!"
  
 
  "You lied about the space ship!" the second voice said.
  
 
  "We did not lie about the space ship!" the eyes insisted. "When our
master saw that ship we were out of focus, we were not reporting. Some
other sense, some other organ, may have lied, but we did not."
  
 
  "I—" Johnson whispered.
  
 
  "I am your skin," another voice whispered. "I am covered with sweat."
  
 
  "We are your adrenals. We are pouring forth adrenalin."
  
 
  "I am your pancreas. I am gearing you for action."
  
 
  "I am your thyroid. I...."
  
 
  A multitude of tiny voices seemed to whisper through him. It was as if
the parts of his body had suddenly found voices and were reporting to
him what they were doing. These were voices out of his training days
when he had learned the names of these functions and how to use them.
  
 
  "Be quiet!" he said roughly.
  
 
  The little voices seemed to blend into a single chorus. "Action,
Master! Do something."
  
 
  "Quiet!" Johnson ordered.
  
 
  "But hurry. We are excited."
  
 
  "There is a time to be excited and a time to hurry. In this situation,
if action is taken before the time for it—if that time ever comes—we
can all die."
  
 
  "Die?" the chorus quavered.
  
 
  "Yes," Johnson said. "Now be quiet. When the time goes we will all go
together."
  
 
  The chorus went into muted silence. But just under the threshold the
little voices were a multitude of tiny fretful pressures.
  
 
  "I hear a whirring sound," his ears reported.
  
 
  "Please!" Johnson said.
  
 
  In the front of the room Unger floated ten feet above the floor.
  
 
  "Master, we are not lying!" his eyes repeated.
  
 
  "I sweat...." his skin began.
  
 
  "Watch Unger!" Johnson said.
  
 
  The Dreamer floated. If wires suspended him, Johnson could not see
them. If any known force lifted him, Johnson could not detect that
force. All he could say for certain was that Unger floated.
  
 
  "Yaaah!" The silence of a room was broken by the enraged scream of a
Venusian being jarred out of his dream.
  
 
  "Damn it!" A human voice said.
  
 
  A wave as sharp as the tip of a sword swept through the room.
  
 
  Unger fell.
  
 
  He was ten feet high when he started to fall. With a bone-breaking,
body-jarring thud, the Dreamer fell. Hard.
  
 
  There was a split second of startled silence in the Dreaming Room. The
silence went. Voices came.
  
 
  "Who did that?"
  
 
  "What happened?"
  
 
  "That human hidden there did it! He broke the Dreaming!" Anger marked
the voices. Although the language was Venusian, Johnson got most of the
meaning. His hand dived under his coat for the gun holstered there. At
his left, Caldwell was muttering thickly. "What—what happened? I was
back in the lab on Earth—" Caldwell's voice held a plaintive note, as
if some pleasant dream had been interrupted.
  
 
  On Johnson's right, Vee Vee seemed to flow to life. Her arms came up
around his neck. He was instantly prepared for anything. Her lips came
hungrily against his lips, pressed very hard, then gently drew away.
  
 
  "What—" he gasped.
  
 
  "I had to do it now, darling," she answered. "There may not be a later."
  
 
  Johnson had no time to ask her what she meant. Somewhere in the back
of the room a human screamed. He jerked around. Back there a knot of
Venusians were attacking a man.
  
 
  "It's Martin!" Caldwell shouted. "He
   
   is
   
  here!"
  
 
  In Johnson's hand as he came to his feet the zit gun throbbed. He fired
blindly at the mass of Venusians. Caldwell was firing too. The soft
throb of the guns was not audible above the uproar from the crowd.
Struck by the gas-driven corvel charges, Venusians were falling. But
there seemed to be an endless number of them.
  
 
  "Vee Vee?" Johnson suddenly realized that she had disappeared. She had
slid out of his sight.
  
 
  "Vee Vee!" Johnson's voice became a shout.
  
 
  "To hell with the woman!" Caldwell grunted. "Martin's the important
one."
  
 
  Zit, zit, zit, Caldwell moved toward the rear, shooting as he went.
Johnson followed.
  
