 
  The Ignoble Savages
  
 
  By EVELYN E. SMITH
  
 
  Illustrated by DILLON
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Galaxy Science Fiction March 1957.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
 
   Snaddra had but one choice in its fight
    
   to afford to live belowground—underhandedly
    
   pretend theirs was an aboveboard society!
   
 
 
 
  "Go Away from me, Skkiru," Larhgan said, pushing his hand off her arm.
"A beggar does not associate with the high priestess of Snaddra."
  
 
  "But the Earthmen aren't due for another fifteen minutes," Skkiru
protested.
  
 
  "Of what importance are fifteen minutes compared to eternity!" she
exclaimed. Her lovely eyes fuzzed softly with emotion. "You don't seem
to realize, Skkiru, that this isn't just a matter of minutes or hours.
It's forever."
  
 
 
 
  "Forever!" He looked at her incredulously. "You mean we're going to
keep this up as a permanent thing? You're joking!"
  
 
  Bbulas groaned, but Skkiru didn't care about that. The sad, sweet way
Larhgan shook her beautiful head disturbed him much more, and when
she said, "No, Skkiru, I am not joking," a tiny pang of doubt and
apprehension began to quiver in his second smallest left toe.
  
 
  "This is, in effect, good-by," she continued. "We shall see each other
again, of course, but only from a distance. On feast days, perhaps you
may be permitted to kiss the hem of my robe ... but that will be all."
  
 
  Skkiru turned to the third person present in the council chamber.
"Bbulas, this is your fault! It was all your idea!"
  
 
  There was regret on the Dilettante's thin face—an obviously insincere
regret, the younger man knew, since he was well aware how Bbulas had
always felt about the girl.
  
 
  "I am sorry, Skkiru," Bbulas intoned. "I had fancied you understood.
This is not a game we are playing, but a new way of life we are
adopting. A necessary way of life, if we of Snaddra are to keep on
living at all."
  
 
  "It's not that I don't love you, Skkiru," Larhgan put in gently, "but
the welfare of our planet comes first."
  
