Aboard the I.S.P. Cruiser, a surprise awaited them. It was young George
Randall, whose excited face met them as soon as they had entered the
airlocks and removed the space suits.
  
 
  "Captain Brooke ... Captain, recordings are showing on the new 'Jet
Analyzers' must be the trail of some spacer. Can't be far!" He was
fairly dancing in his excitement, as if the marvelous work of the
new invention that detected the disturbance of atomic jets at great
distance were his own achievement.
  
 
  Dennis Brooke smiled. His own heart was hammering, and inwardly he
prayed that it were Koerber. It had to be! No interplanetary passenger
spacer could possibly be out here at the intersection of angles Kp
39 degrees, 12 minutes, Fp 67 degrees of Ceres elliptic plane. None
but a pirate crew with swift battle cruisers could dare! This was the
dangerous asteroid belt, where even planetoids drifted in eccentric
uncharted orbits.
  
 
  Dennis, Tom Jeffery and Scotty Byrnes raced to the control room,
followed by the ponderous Dallas to whom hurry in any form was
anathema. There could be no doubt now! The "Jet Analyzer" recorded
powerful disturbance, atomic—could be nothing else.
  
 
  Instantly Captain Brooke was at the inter-communication speaker:
  
 
  "Crew, battle stations! Engine room, full speed!"
  
 
  Scotty Byrnes was already dashing to the engine room, where his beloved
motors purred with an ascending hum. Aboard the I.S.P. Cruiser each
member of the crew raced to his assigned task without delay. Action
impended, and after days and nights of inertia, it was a blessed
relief. Smiles appeared on haggard faces, and the banter of men
suddenly galvanized by a powerful incentive was bandied back and forth.
All but George Randall. Now that action was imminent. Something gripped
his throat until he could hardly stand the tight collar of his I.S.P.
uniform. A growing nausea gripped his bowels, and although he strove to
keep calm, his hands trembled beyond control.
  
 
  In the compact, super-armored control room, Captain Brooke watched
the telecast's viso-screen, with hungry eyes that were golden with
anticipation. It seemed to him as if an eternity passed before at
last, a black speck danced on the illuminated screen, until it finally
reached the center of the viso-screen and remained there. It grew by
leaps and bounds as the terrific speed of the cruiser minimized the
distance long before the quarry was aware of pursuit.
  
 
  But at last, when the enemy cruiser showed on the viso-screen,
unmistakably for what it was—a pirate craft, it showed by its sudden
maneuver that it had detected the I.S.P. cruiser. For it had described
a parabola in space and headed for the dangerous asteroid belt. As if
navigated by a masterly hand that knew each and every orbit of the
asteroids, it plunged directly into the asteroid drift, hoping to lose
the I.S.P. cruiser with such a maneuver. Ordinarily, it would have
succeeded, no I.S.P. patrol ship would have dared to venture into such
a trap without specific orders. But to Dennis Brooke, directing the
chase from the control room, even certain death was welcome, if only he
could take Koerber with him.
  
 
  Weaving through the deadly belt for several hours, Dennis saw his
quarry slow down. Instantly he seized the chance and ordered a salvo
from starboard. Koerber's powerful spacer reeled, dived and came up
spewing Genton-shells. The battle was on at last.
  
 
  From the banked atom-cannon of the I.S.P. Cruiser, a deadly curtain
of atomic fire blazed at the pirate craft. A ragged rent back toward
midship showed on Koerber's Cruiser which trembled as if it had been
mortally wounded. Then Dennis maneuvered his cruiser into a power
dive as a rain of Genton-shells swept the space lane above him, but as
he came up, a lone shell struck. At such close range, super-armor was
ripped, second armor penetrated and the magnificent vessel shook under
the detonating impact.
  
 
  It was then that Dennis Brooke saw the immense dark shadow looming
immediately behind Koerber's ship. He saw the pirate cruiser zoom
desperately in an effort to break the gravity trap of the looming mass,
but too late. It struggled like a fly caught in a spider-web to no
avail. It was then that Koerber played his last card. Sensing he was
doomed, he tried to draw the I.S.P. Cruiser down with him. A powerful
magnetic beam lashed out to spear the I.S.P. Cruiser.
  
