There were two small items of interest to me in the Times the following
morning.
  
 
  One two-inch story—barely making page one because of a hole to fill at
the bottom of an account of the number of victims of Indian summer heat
prostration—told of the incineration of a warehouse on Fleet Street by
an ingenious new arson bomb that left "virtually" no trace. (Maybe the
fire inspector had planted a few traces to make his explanation more
creditable.)
  
 
  The second item was further over in a science column just off the
editorial page. It told of the government—!—developing a new process
of waste disposal rivaling the old Buck Rogers disintegrator ray.
  
 
  This, I presumed, was one of Tony Carmen's information leaks.
  
 
  If he hoped to arouse the public into demanding my invention I
doubted he would succeed. The public had been told repeatedly of a
new radioactive process for preserving food and a painless way of
spraying injections through the skin. But they were still stuck with
refrigerators and hypodermic needles.
  
 
  I had forced my way half-way through the paper and the terrible coffee
I made when the doorbell rang.
  
 
  I was hardly surprised when it turned out to be Tony Carmen behind the
front door.
  
 
  He pushed in, slapping a rolled newspaper in his palm. "Action,
Professor."
  
 
  "The district attorney has indicted you?" I asked hopefully.
  
 
  "He's not even indicted
   
   you
   
  , Venetti. No, I got a feeler on this
plant in the
   
   Times
   
  ."
  
 
  I shook my head. "The government will take over the invention, no
matter what the public wants."
  
 
  "The public? Who cares about the public? The Arcivox corporation wants
this machine of yours. They have their agents tracing the plant now.
They will go from the columnist to his legman to my man and finally to
you. Won't be long before they get here. An hour maybe."
  
 
  "Arcivox makes radios and TV sets. What do they want with the
Expendables?"
  
 
  "Opening up a new appliance line with real innovations. I hear they got
a new refrigerator. All open. Just shelves—no doors or sides. They
want a revolutionary garbage disposal too."
  
 
  "Do you own stock in the company? Is that how you know?"
  
 
  "I own stock in a competitor. That's how I know," Carmen informed me.
"Listen, Professor, you can sell to Arcivox and still keep control of
the patents through a separate corporation. And I'll give you 49% of
its stock."
  
 
  This was Carmen's idea of a magnanimous offer for my invention. It
   
   was
   
  a pretty good offer—49% and my good health.
  
 
  "But will the government let Arcivox have the machine for commercial
use?"
  
 
  "The government would let Arcivox have the hydrogen bomb if they found
a commercial use for it."
  
 
  There was a sturdy knock on the door, not a shrill ring of the bell.
  
 
  "That must be Arcivox now," Carmen growled. "They have the best
detectives in the business. You know what to tell them?"
  
 
  I knew what to tell them.
  
