Barry developed definite external signs of what the Sigma radiation had
done to him. The skin between his fingers and toes spread, grew into
membranous webs. The swellings in his neck became more pronounced and
dark parallel lines appeared.
  
 
  But despite the doctor's pessimistic reports that the changes had not
stopped, Barry continued to tell himself he was recovering. He had
to believe and keep on believing to retain sanity in the face of the
weird, unclassifiable feelings that surged through his body. Still
he was subject to fits of almost suicidal depression, and Dorothy's
failure to visit him did not help his mental condition.
  
 
  Then one day he woke from a nap and thought he was still dreaming.
Dorothy was leaning over him.
  
 
  "Barry! Barry!" she whispered. "I can't help it. I love you even if you
do have a wife and child in Philadelphia. I know it's wrong but all
that seems so far away it doesn't matter any more." Tears glistened in
her eyes.
  
 
  "Huh?" he grunted. "Who? Me?"
  
 
  "Please, Barry, don't lie. She wrote to me before Three blasted
off—oh, the most piteous letter!"
  
 
  Barry was fully awake now. "I'm not married. I have no child.
I've never been in Philadelphia," he shouted. His lips thinned.
"I—think—I—know—who—wrote—that—letter!" he declared grimly.
  
 
  "Robson wouldn't!" she objected, shocked, but there was a note of doubt
in her voice.
  
 
  Then she was in his arms, sobbing openly.
  
 
  "I believe you, Barry."
  
 
  She stayed with him for hours, and she had changed since the days
at Training Base. Long months away from the patterned restraints of
civilization, living each day on the edge of unknown perils, had
awakened in her the realization that she was a human being and a
woman, as well as a toxicologist.
  
 
  When the water-mist finally forced her departure she left Barry joyous
and confident of his eventual recovery. For a few minutes anger
simmered in his brain as he contemplated the pleasure of rearranging
Robson Hind's features.
  
 
  The accident with the scaffold had been remarkably convenient, but
this time the ruthless, restless, probably psychopathic drive that had
made Robson Hind more than just another rich man's spoiled son had
carried him too far. Barry wondered whether it had been inefficiency or
judiciously distributed money that had made the psychometrists overlook
some undesirable traits in Hind's personality in accepting him for the
Five Ship Plan.
  
 
  But even with his trickery Hind had lost.
  
 
  He slept, and woke with a feeling of doom.
  
 
  The slow Venusian twilight had ended in blackness and the overhead
tubelight was off.
  
 
  He sat up, and apprehension gave way to burning torture in his chest.
  
 
  Silence! He fumbled for the light switch, then knelt beside the mist
machine that no longer hummed. Power and water supplies were both dead,
cut off outside his room.
  
 
  Floating droplets were merging and falling to the floor. Soon the air
would be dry, and he would be choking and strangling. He turned to call
for help.
  
 
  The door was locked!
  
 
  He tugged and the knob came away in his hand. The retaining screw had
been removed.
  
 
  He beat upon the panel, first with his fists and then with the metal
doorknob, but the insulation between the double alloy sheets was
efficient soundproofing. Furiously he hurled himself upon it, only to
bounce back with a bruised shoulder. He was trapped.
  
 
  Working against time and eventual death he snatched a metal chair
and swung with all his force at the window, again, again, yet again.
A small crack appeared in the transparent plastic, branched under
continued hammering, became a rough star. He gathered his waning
strength, then swung once more. The tough plastic shattered.
  
 
  He tugged at the jagged pieces still clinging to the frame. Fog-laden
Venusian air poured in—but it was not enough!
  
 
  He dragged himself head first through the narrow opening, landed
sprawling on hands and knees in the darkness. In his ears a confused
rustling drone from the alien swamp mingled with the roar of
approaching unconsciousness.
  
 
  There was a smell in his nostrils. The smell of water. He lurched
forward at a shambling run, stumbling over the uneven ground.
  
 
  Then he plunged from the rocky ledge into the slough. Flashes of
colored light flickered before his eyes as he went under. But Earth
habits were still strong; instinctively he held his breath.
  
 
  Then he fainted. Voluntary control of his body vanished. His mouth hung
slack and the breathing reflex that had been an integral part of his
life since the moment of birth forced him to inhale.
  
 
  Bubbles floated upward and burst. Then Barry Barr was lying in the ooze
of the bottom. And he was breathing, extracting vital oxygen from the
brackish, silt-clouded water.
  
 
 
  III
  
 
  Slowly his racing heartbeat returned to normal. Gradually he became
aware of the stench of decaying plants and of musky taints he knew
instinctively were the scents of underwater animals. Then with a shock
the meaning became clear. He had become a water-breather, cut off from
all other Earthmen, no longer entirely human. His fellows in the colony
were separated from him now by a gulf more absolute than the airless
void between Earth and Venus.
  
 
  Something slippery and alive touched him near one armpit. He opened
his eyes in the black water and his groping hand clutched something
burrowing into his skin. With a shudder of revulsion he crushed a fat
worm between his fingers.
  
 
  Then dozens of them—hundreds—were upon him from all sides. He was
wearing only a pair of khaki pants but the worms ignored his chest to
congregate around his face, intent on attacking the tender skin of his
eyelids.
  
 
  For a minute his flailing hands fought them off, but they came in
increasing numbers and clung like leeches. Pain spread as they bit and
burrowed, and blindly he began to swim.
  
 
  Faster and faster. He could sense the winding banks of the slough and
kept to midchannel, swimming with his eyes tightly closed. One by one
the worms dropped off.
  
 
  He stopped, opened his eyes, not on complete darkness this time but on
a faint blue-green luminescence from far below. The water was saltier
here, and clearer.
  
 
  He had swum down the slough and out into the ocean. He tried to turn
back, obsessed by a desire to be near the colony even though he
could not go ashore without strangling, but he had lost all sense of
direction.
  
 
  He was still weak and his lungs were not completely adjusted to
underwater life. Again he grew dizzy and faint. The slow movements of
hands and feet that held him just below the surface grew feeble and
ceased. He sank.
  
 
  Down into dimly luminous water he dropped, and with his respiratory
system completely water-filled there was no sensation of pressure. At
last he floated gently to the bottom and lay motionless.
  
 
  Shouting voices awakened him, an exultant battle cry cutting through a
gasping scream of anguish. Streaks of bright orange light were moving
toward him in a twisting pattern. At the head of each trail was a
figure. A human figure that weaved and swam in deadly moving combat.
One figure drifted limply bottomward.
  
 
  Hallucination, Barry told himself. Then one of the figures broke from
the group. Almost overhead it turned sharply downward and the feet
moved in a powerful flutter-kick. A slender spear aimed directly at the
Earthman.
  
 
  Barry threw himself aside. The spear point plunged deep into the
sticky, yielding bottom and Barry grappled with its wielder.
  
 
  Pointed fingernails raked his cheek. Barry's balled fist swung
in a roundhouse blow but water resistance slowed the punch to
ineffectiveness. The creature only shook its head and came in kicking
and clawing.
  
 
  Barry braced his feet against the bottom and leaped. His head butted
the attacker's chest and at the same instant he lashed a short jab to
the creature's belly. It slumped momentarily, its face working.
  
 
  Human—or nearly so—the thing was, with a stocky, powerful body and
webbed hands and feet. A few scraps of clothing, seemingly worn more
for ornament than covering, clung to the fishbelly-white skin. The face
was coarse and savage.
  
 
  It shook off the effects of Barry's punch and one webbed hand snatched
a short tube from its belt.
  
 
  Barry remembered the spring-opening knife in his pocket, and even as
he flicked the blade out the tube-weapon fired. Sound thrummed in the
water and the water grew milky with a myriad of bubbles. Something
zipped past his head, uncomfortably close.
  
 
  Then Barry struck, felt his knife slice flesh and grate against bone.
He struck again even as the undersea being screamed and went limp.
  
 
  Barry stared through the reddening water.
  
 
  Another figure plunged toward him. Barry jerked the dead Venusian's
spear from the mud and raised it defensively.
  
 
  But the figure paid no attention. This one was a female who fled
desperately from two men closing in from opposite sides. One threw his
spear, using an odd pushing motion, and as she checked and dodged, the
other was upon her from behind.
  
 
  One arm went around her neck in a strangler's hold, bending her slender
body backward. Together captor and struggling captive sank toward the
bottom. The other recovered his thrown spear and moved in to help
secure her arms and legs with lengths of cord.
  
 
  One scooped up the crossbow the girl had dropped. The other ripped at
her brief skirt and from her belt took a pair of tubes like the one the
dead Venusian had fired at Barry, handling them as though they were
loot of the greatest value. He jerked cruelly at the slender metallic
necklace the girl wore but it did not break.
  
 
  He punched the helpless girl in the abdomen with the butt of his spear.
The girl writhed but she did not attempt to cry out.
  
 
  Barry bounded toward them in a series of soaring leaps, knife and spear
ready. One Venusian turned to meet him, grinning maliciously.
  
 
  Barry dug one foot into the bottom and sidestepped a spear thrust. His
own lunge missed completely. Then he and the Venusian were inside each
other's spear points, chest to chest. A pointed hook strapped to the
inside of the creature's wrist just missed Barry's throat. The Earthman
arched his body backward and his knife flashed upward. The creature
gasped and pulled away, clutching with both hands at a gaping wound in
its belly.
  
 
  The other one turned too late as Barry leaped.
  
 
  Barry's hilt cracked against its jawbone.
  
