In the outer office a girl cried out. A body thumped against a desk,
then a chair, then to the floor. Two girls screamed.
  
 
  Andy bolted up from his chair. Racing to the door, he shouted back to
Bettijean, "Get a staff doctor and a chemist from the lab."
  
 
  It was the girl who had been so nervous in his office earlier. Now she
lay in a pathetic little heap between her desk and chair, whimpering,
shivering, eyes wide with horror. The other girls clustered at the
hall door, plainly ready to stampede.
  
 
  "It's not contagious," Andy growled. "Find some blankets or coats to
cover her. And get a glass of water."
  
 
  The other girls, glad for the excuse, dashed away. Andy scooped up the
fallen girl and put her down gently on the close-jammed desks. He used
a chair cushion for a pillow. By then the other girls were back with a
blanket and the glass of water. He covered the girl, gave her a sip of
water and heard somebody murmur, "Poor Janis."
  
 
  "Now," Andy said brightly, "how's that, Janis?"
  
 
  She mustered a smile, and breathed, "Better. I ... I was so scared.
Fever and dizzy ... symptoms like the epidemic."
  
 
  "Now you know there's nothing to be afraid of," Andy said, feeling
suddenly and ridiculously like a pill roller with a practiced bedside
manner. "You know you may feel pretty miserable, but nobody's conked
out with this stuff yet."
  
 
  Janis breathed out and her taut body relaxed.
  
 
  "Don't hurry," Andy said, "but I want you to tell me everything that
you did—everything you ate or drank—in the last ... oh, twelve
hours." He felt a pressure behind him and swiveled his head to see
Bettijean standing there. He tried to smile.
  
 
  "What time is it?" Janis asked weakly.
  
 
  Andy glanced to a wall clock, then gave it a double take.
  
 
  One of the girls said, "It's three o'clock in the morning." She edged
nearer Andy, obviously eager to replace Janis as the center of
attention. Andy ignored her.
  
 
  "I ... I've been here since ... golly, yesterday morning at nine,"
Janis said. "I came to work as usual and...."
  
 
  Slowly, haltingly, she recited the routine of a routine work day, then
told about the quick snack that sufficed for supper and about staying
on her phone and typewriter for another five hours. "It was about
eleven when the relief crew came in."
  
 
  "What did you do then?" Andy asked.
  
 
  "I ... I took a break and...." Her ivory skin reddened, the color
spreading into the roots of her fluffy curls, and she turned her face
away from Andy. "And I had a sandwich and some coffee and got a little
nap in the ladies' lounge and ... and that's all."
  
 
  "And that's not all," Andy prompted. "What else?"
  
 
  "Nothing," Janis said too quickly.
  
 
  Andy shook his head. "Tell it all and maybe it'll help."
  
 
  "But ... but...."
  
 
  "Was it something against regulations?"
  
 
  "I ... I don't know. I think...."
  
 
  "I'll vouch for your job in this office."
  
 
  "Well...." She seemed on the verge of tears and her pleading glance
sought out Andy, then Bettijean, then her co-workers. Finally,
resigned, she said, "I ... I wrote a letter to my mother."
  
 
  Andy swallowed against his groan of disappointment. "And you told her
about what we were doing here."
  
 
  Janis nodded, and tears welled into her wide eyes.
  
 
  "Did you mail it?"
  
 
  "Y ... yes."
  
 
  "You didn't use a government envelope to save a stamp?"
  
 
  "Oh, no. I always carry a few stamps with me." She choked down a sob.
"Did I do wrong?"
  
 
  "No, I don't think so," Andy said, patting her shoulder. "There's
certainly nothing secret about this epidemic. Now you just take it
easy and—. Oh, here's a doctor now."
  
 
  The doctor, a white-headed Air Force major, bustled into the room. A
lab technician in a white smock was close behind. Andy could only
shrug and indicate the girl.
  
 
  Turning away, lighting a cigarette, he tried to focus on the tangle of
thoughts that spun through his head. Doctors, writers, society
matrons, office workers—Aspen, Taos and college towns—thousands of
people sick—but none in that valley in Tennessee—and few government
workers—just one girl in his office—and she was sicker and more
frightened about a letter—and....
  
 
  "Hey, wait!" Andy yelled.
  
 
  Everyone in the room froze as Andy spun around, dashed to Bettijean's
desk and yanked out the wide, top drawer. He pawed through it,
straightened, then leaped across to the desk Janis had used. He
snatched open drawer after drawer. In a bottom one he found her purse.
Ripping it open, he dumped the contents on the desk and clawed through
the pile until he found what he wanted. Handing it to the lab
technician, he said, "Get me a report. Fast."
  
 
  The technician darted out.
  
 
  Andy wheeled to Bettijean. "Get the brass in here. And call the
general first." To the doctor, he said, "Give that girl the best of
everything."
  
 
  Then he ducked back to his own office and to the pile of reports. He
was still poring over them when the general arrived. Half a dozen
other brass hats, none of whom had been to bed, were close behind. The
lab technician arrived a minute later. He shook his head as he handed
his hastily scribbled report to Andy.
  
