Fith erected his eye stalks so violently that one eye-shield fell off.
  
 
  "I know nothing of ... of...." He stopped. His throat vibrated rapidly
as he struggled for calm.
  
 
  "My government can entertain no further accusations, Mr. Consul,"
he said at last. "I have been completely candid with you, I have
overlooked your probing into matters not properly within your sphere of
responsibility. My patience is at an end."
  
 
  "Where is that ship?" Retief rapped out. "You never learn, do you?
You're still convinced you can hide the whole thing and forget it. I'm
telling you you can't."
  
 
  "We return to the city now," Fith said. "I can do no more."
  
 
  "You can and you will, Fith," Retief said. "I intend to get to the
truth of this matter."
  
 
  Fith spoke to Shluh in rapid Groacian. The police chief gestured to his
four armed constables. They moved to ring Retief in.
  
 
  Retief eyed Fith. "Don't try it," he said. "You'll just get yourself in
deeper."
  
 
  Fith clacked his mandibles angrily, eye stalks canted aggressively
toward the Terrestrial.
  
 
  "Out of deference to your diplomatic status, Terrestrial, I shall
ignore your insulting remarks," Fith said in his reedy voice. "Let us
now return to the city."
  
 
  Retief looked at the four policemen. "I see your point," he said.
  
 
  Fith followed him into the car, sat rigidly at the far end of the seat.
  
 
  "I advise you to remain very close to your consulate," Fith said. "I
advise you to dismiss these fancies from your mind, and to enjoy the
cultural aspects of life at Groac. Especially, I should not venture out
of the city, or appear overly curious about matters of concern only to
the Groacian government."
  
 
  In the front seat, Shluh looked straight ahead. The loosely-sprung
vehicle bobbed and swayed along the narrow highway. Retief listened to
the rhythmic puffing of the motor and said nothing.
  
 
 
  III
  
 
  "Miss Meuhl," Retief said, "I want you to listen carefully to what I'm
going to tell you. I have to move rapidly now, to catch the Groaci off
guard."
  
 
  "I'm sure I don't know what you're talking about," Miss Meuhl snapped,
her eyes sharp behind the heavy lenses.
  
 
  "If you'll listen, you may find out," Retief said. "I have no time
to waste, Miss Meuhl. They won't be expecting an immediate move—I
hope—and that may give me the latitude I need."
  
 
  "You're still determined to make an issue of that incident!" Miss
Meuhl snorted. "I really can hardly blame the Groaci. They are not a
sophisticated race; they had never before met aliens."
  
 
  "You're ready to forgive a great deal, Miss Meuhl. But it's not what
happened nine years ago I'm concerned with. It's what's happening now.
I've told you that it was only a lifeboat the Groaci have hidden out.
Don't you understand the implication? That vessel couldn't have come
far. The cruiser itself must be somewhere near by. I want to know
where!"
  
 
  "The Groaci don't know. They're a very cultured, gentle people. You can
do irreparable harm to the reputation of Terrestrials if you insist—"
  
 
  "That's my decision," Retief said. "I have a job to do and we're
wasting time." He crossed the room to his desk, opened a drawer and
took out a slim-barreled needler.
  
 
  "This office is being watched. Not very efficiently, if I know the
Groaci. I think I can get past them all right."
  
 
  "Where are you going with ... that?" Miss Meuhl stared at the needler.
"What in the world—"
  
 
  "The Groaci won't waste any time destroying every piece of paper in
their files relating to this thing. I have to get what I need before
it's too late. If I wait for an official Inquiry Commission, they'll
find nothing but blank smiles."
  
 
  "You're out of your mind!" Miss Meuhl stood up, quivering with
indignation. "You're like a ... a...."
  
 
  "You and I are in a tight spot, Miss Meuhl. The logical next move for
the Groaci is to dispose of both of us. We're the only ones who know
what happened. Fith almost did the job this afternoon, but I bluffed
him out—for the moment."
  
 
  Miss Meuhl emitted a shrill laugh. "Your fantasies are getting the
better of you," she gasped. "In danger, indeed! Disposing of me! I've
never heard anything so ridiculous."
  
 
  "Stay in this office. Close and safe-lock the door. You've got food and
water in the dispenser. I suggest you stock up, before they shut the
supply down. Don't let anyone in, on any pretext whatever. I'll keep in
touch with you via hand-phone."
  
 
  "What are you planning to do?"
  
 
  "If I don't make it back here, transmit the sealed record of this
afternoon's conversation, along with the information I've given you.
Beam it through on a mayday priority. Then tell the Groaci what you've
done and sit tight. I think you'll be all right. It won't be easy to
blast in here and anyway, they won't make things worse by killing you.
A force can be here in a week."
  
 
  "I'll do nothing of the sort! The Groaci are very fond of me! You ...
Johnny-come-lately! Roughneck! Setting out to destroy—"
  
 
  "Blame it on me if it will make you feel any better," Retief said, "but
don't be fool enough to trust them." He pulled on a cape, opened the
door.
  
 
  "I'll be back in a couple of hours," he said. Miss Meuhl stared after
him silently as he closed the door.
  
