  Transcriber's Note:
  
 
  This etext was produced from IF Worlds of Science Fiction June 1954. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.
  
 
 
 
 
 
  THE VALLEY
  
 
 
 
  By Richard Stockham
  
 
 
 
  Illustrated by Ed Emsh
  
 
 
 
 
   If you can't find it countless millions of miles in space,
come back to Earth. You might find it just on the other side
of the fence—where the grass is always greener.
   
 
 
 
  The Ship dove into Earth's sea of atmosphere like a great, silver
fish.
  
 
  Inside the ship, a man and woman stood looking down at the expanse of
land that curved away to a growing horizon. They saw the yellow ground
cracked like a dried skin; and the polished stone of the mountains and
the seas that were shrunken away in the dust. And they saw how the
city circled the sea, as a circle of men surround a water hole in a
desert under a blazing sun.
  
 
  The ship's radio cried out. "You've made it! Thank God! You've made
it!"
  
 
  Another voice, shaking, said, "President—Davis is—overwhelmed. He
can't go on. On his behalf and on behalf of all the people—with our
hope that was almost dead, we greet you." A pause. "Please come in!"
  
 
  The voice was silent. The air screamed against the hull of the ship.
  
 
  "I can't tell them," said the man.
  
 
  "Please come in!" said the radio. "Do you hear me?"
  
 
  The woman looked up at the man. "You've got to Michael!"
  
 
  "Two thousand years. From one end of the galaxy to the other. Not one
grain of dust we can live on. Just Earth. And it's burned to a
cinder."
  
 
  A note of hysteria stabbed into the radio voice. "Are you all right?
Stand by! We're sending a rescue ship."
  
 
  "They've got a right to know what we've found," said the woman. "They
sent us out. They've waited so long—."
  
 
  He stared into space. "It's hopeless. If we'd found another planet
they could live on, they'd do the same as they've done here."
  
 
  He touched the tiny golden locket that hung around his neck. "Right
now, I could press this and scratch myself and the whole farce would
be over."
  
 
  "No. A thousand of us died. You've got to think of them."
  
 
  "We'll go back out into space," he said. "It's clean out there. I'm
tired. Two thousand years of reincarnation."
  
 
  She spoke softly. "We've been together for a long time. I've loved
you. I've asked very little. But I need to stay on Earth. Please,
Michael."
  
 
  He looked at her for a moment. Then he flipped a switch. "Milky Way to
Earth. Never mind the rescue ship. We're all right. We're coming in."
  
