Haldane shouted and moved at the same time. His arm lashed out wildly,
thrusting, smashing Chip to the floor in a sprawling heap. The as-yet
unopened bottle was now violently opened; it splintered into a thousand
shards against a wall.
  
 
  Bruised and shaken, Chip lifted his head to see what had caused
Johnny's alarm. Even as he did so, the dull gloom of the bar was
blazoned with searing effulgence. A lancet of flame leaped from the
dark, rearward doorway, burst in Johnny Haldane's face!
  
 
  The Patrolman cried once, a choking cry that died in a mewling whimper.
His unused pistol slipped from slackening fingers, and he sagged to
the floor. Again crimson lightning laced the shadows; Haldane's body
jerked, and the air was raw with the hot, sickening stench of charred
flesh.
  
 
  With an instinct born of bitter years, Chip had come to his knees
behind the shelter of the mahogany bar. But now his own flame-pistol
was in his hand, and a dreadful rage was mingled with the agony in his
heart. Reckless of results, he sprang to his feet, gun spewing livid
death into the shadows.
  
 
  His blast found a mark. For an instant flame haloed a human face drawn
in inhuman pain. A heavy, sultry, bestial face, already puckered with
one long, ugly scar that ran from right temple to jawbone, now newly
scarred with the red brand of Chip's marksmanship.
  
 
  Then, before Chip could fire again, came the rasp of pounding
footsteps. The man turned and fled. Chip bent over his fallen friend,
seeking, with hands that did not even feel the heat, fluttering life
beneath still smoldering cloth.
  
 
  He felt—nothing. Johnny was dead.
  
 
  A snarl of sheer animal rage burst from Chip's lips. Someone would pay
for this; pay dearly! Help was coming now. He himself would lead the
hue-and-cry that would track a foul murderer to his lair. He spun as
the footsteps drew nearer.
  
 
  "Hurry!" he cried. "This way! Follow me—"
  
 
  In a bound, he hurdled the bar, lingered at the door only long enough
to let the others mark his course. For they had burst into the room,
now, a full score of them. Excited, hard-bitten dogs of space,
quick-triggered and willing. Once more he cried for help.
  
 
  "After him! Come on! He—"
  
 
  And then—disaster struck! For a reedy voice broke from the van of the
mob. The voice of the Martian bartender.
  
 
  "That's him!" he piped sibilantly. "That's the man! He's a desperate
criminal, wanted on four planets for murder! The Patrolman came to
arrest him—
   
   and now he's murdered the Spacie
   
  !"
  
