They watched the parabola it made in its trajectory as it flashed into
space and then fell into orbit there beyond the planetary attraction of
Venus. On the three-dimensional viso-screen it was uncannily real.
  
 
  A flight that had taken many hours to accomplish, was shortened on
the viso-screen to a matter of minutes. They saw the great, proud
interplanetary transport speeding majestically through the starry void,
and suddenly, they saw her swerve in a great arc; again she swerved
as if avoiding something deadly in space, and point upwards gaining
altitude. It was zig-zagging now, desperately maneuvering in an erratic
course, and as if by magic, a tiny spot appeared on the transport's
side.
  
 
  Tiny on the viso-screen, the fatal spots must have been huge in
actuality. To the Commander of the I.S.P., and to Captain Brooke, it
was an old story. Atom-blasts were pitting the spacer's hull with
deadly Genton shells. The great transport trembled under the impact of
the barrage, and suddenly, the screen went blank.
  
 
  Commander Bertram turned slowly to face the young I.S.P. captain, whose
features were a mask devoid of all expression now, save for the pallor
and the burning fire in his eyes.
  
 
  "And that's the sixth one in a month. Sometimes the survivors reach
Terra in emergency spacers, or are picked up in space by other
transports ... and sometimes son ... well, as you know, sometimes
they're never seen again."
  
 
  "When do I leave, Commander!" Dennis Brooke's voice was like a javelin
of ice.
  
 
  "Right now, if you wish. We have a new cruiser armored in beryloid with
double hull—a new design against Genton shells, but it's the speed
of the thing that you'll want to know about. It just about surpasses
anything ever invented. Get the figures and data from the coordination
room, son; it's serviced and fueled and the crew's aboard." He
extended his hand. "You're the best spacer we have—aside from your
recklessness—and on your success depends far more than the capture of
an outlaw." Bertram smiled thinly. "Happy landing!"
  
 
 
  II
  
 
  Their nerves were ragged. Days and days of fruitless search for a
phantom ship that seemed to have vanished from space, and an equally
elusive pirate whose whereabouts were hidden in the depths of
fathomless space.
  
 
  To all but Captain Brooke, this was a new adventure, their first
assignment to duty in a search that went beyond the realm of the
inner planets, where men spent sleepless nights in eternal vigilance
against stray asteroids and outlaw crews of ruthless vandal ships. Even
their cruiser was a new experience, the long, tapering fighter lacked
the luxurious offices and appointments of the regular I.S.P. Patrol
spacers. It placed a maximum on speed, and all available space was
hoarded for fuel. The lightning fast tiger of the space-lanes, was a
thing of beauty, but of grim, sleek beauty instinct with power, not the
comfortable luxury that they knew.
  
 
  Day after day they went through their drills, donning space suits,
manning battle stations; aiming deadly atom-cannon at empty space, and
eternally scanning the vast empty reaches by means of the telecast.
  
 
  And suddenly, out of the void, as they had all but given up the search
as a wild goose chase, a speck was limned in the lighted surface of the
viso-screen in the control room. Instantly the I.S.P. cruiser came to
life. In a burst of magnificent speed, the cruiser literally devoured
the space leagues, until the spacer became a flashing streak. On the
viso-screen, the speck grew larger, took on contours, growing and
becoming slowly the drifting shell of what had been a transport.
  
 
  Presently they were within reaching distance, and Captain Brooke
commanded through the teleradio from the control room:
  
 
  "Prepare to board!"
  
 
  Every member of the crew wanted to be among the boarding party, for
all but George Randall, the junior member of the crew had served his
apprenticeship among the inner planets, Mars, Venus and Terra. He felt
nauseated at the very thought of going out there in that vast abyss of
space. His young, beardless face, with the candid blue eyes went pale
when the order was given. But presently, Captain Brooke named those who
were to go beside himself:
  
 
  "You, Tom and Scotty, take one emergency plane, and Dallas!"
  
 
  "Yes, Captain!" Dallas Bernan, the immense third lieutenant boomed in
his basso-profundo voice.
  
 
  "You and I'll take a second emergency!" There was a pause in the voice
of the Captain from the control room, then: "Test space suits. Test
oxygen helmets! Atom-blasts only, ready in five minutes!"
  
 
  George Randall breathed a sigh of relief. He watched them bridge the
space to the drifting wreck, then saw them enter what had once been a
proud interplanetary liner, now soon to be but drifting dust, and he
turned away with a look of shame.
  
 
  Inside the liner, Captain Dennis Brooke had finished making a detailed
survey.
  
 
  "No doubt about it," he spoke through the radio in his helmet. "Cargo
missing. No survivors. No indication that the repulsion fields were
out of order. And finally, those Genton shells could only have been
fired by Koerber!" He tried to maintain a calm exterior, but inwardly
he seethed in a cold fury more deadly than any he had ever experienced.
Somehow he had expected to find at least one compartment unharmed,
where life might have endured, but now, all hope was gone. Only a great
resolve to deal with Koerber once and for all remained to him.
  
 
  Dennis tried not to think of Marla, too great an ache was involved in
thinking of her and all he had lost. When he finally spoke, his voice
was harsh, laconic:
  
 
  "Prepare to return!"
  
 
  Scotty Byrnes, the cruiser's nurse, who could take his motors through a
major battle, or hell and high water and back again, for that matter,
shifted the Venusian weed that made a perpetual bulge on his cheek and
gazed curiously at Captain Brooke. They all knew the story in various
versions, and with special additions. But they were spacemen, implicit
in their loyalty, and with Dennis Brooke they could and did feel safe.
  
 
  Tom Jeffery, the tall, angular and red-faced Navigator, whose slow,
easygoing movements belied the feral persistence of a tiger, and the
swiftness of a striking cobra in a fight, led the small procession of
men toward the emergency planes. Behind him came Dallas Bernan, third
lieutenant, looming like a young asteroid in his space suit, followed
by Scotty, and finally Captain Brooke himself. All left in silence, as
if the tragedy that had occurred aboard the wrecked liner, had touched
them intimately.
  
