He followed the signals of a spacesuited member of the port staff and
maneuvered out of the dome. Then he headed the tractor across the
frozen surface of Ganymede toward the permanent domes of the city.
  
 
  "How is it here?" asked the girl. "They told me it's pretty rough."
  
 
  "What did you expect?" asked Tolliver. "Square dances with champagne?"
  
 
  "Don't be silly. Daddy says I'm supposed to learn traffic routing and
the business management of a local branch. They probably won't let me
see much else."
  
 
  "You never can tell," said the pilot, yielding to temptation. "Any
square inch of Ganymede is likely to be dangerous."
  
 
 
   I'll be sorry later
   
  , he reflected,
   
   but if Jeffers keeps me jockeying
this creeper, I'm entitled to some amusement. And Daddy's little girl
is trying too hard to sound like one of the gang.
   
 
 
  "Yeah," he went on, "right now, I don't do a thing but drive missions
from the city to the spaceport."
  
 
  "Missions! You call driving a mile or so a
   
   mission
   
  ?"
  
 
  Tolliver pursed his lips and put on a shrewd expression.
  
 
  "Don't sneer at Ganymede, honey!" he warned portentously. "Many a
man who did isn't here today. Take the fellow who used to drive this
mission!"
  
 
  "You can call me Betty. What happened to him?"
  
 
  "I'll tell you some day," Tolliver promised darkly. "This moon can
strike like a vicious animal."
  
 
  "Oh, they told me there was nothing alive on Ganymede!"
  
 
  "I was thinking of the mountain slides," said the pilot. "Not to
mention volcanic puffballs that pop out through the frozen crust where
you'd least expect. That's why I draw such high pay for driving an
unarmored tractor."
  
 
  "You use armored vehicles?" gasped the girl.
  
 
  She was now sitting bolt upright in the swaying seat. Tolliver
deliberately dipped one track into an icy hollow. In the light gravity,
the tractor responded with a weird, floating lurch.
  
 
  "Those slides," he continued. "Ganymede's only about the size of
Mercury, something like 3200 miles in diameter, so things get heaped up
at steep angles. When the rock and ice are set to sliding, they come
at you practically horizontally. It doesn't need much start, and it
barrels on for a long way before there's enough friction to stop it. If
you're in the way—well, it's just too bad!"
  
 
 
   Say, that's pretty good!
   
  he told himself.
   
   What a liar you are,
Tolliver!
   
 
 
  He enlarged upon other dangers to be encountered on the satellite,
taking care to impress the newcomer with the daredeviltry of John
Tolliver, driver of "missions" across the menacing wastes between dome
and port.
  
 
  In the end, he displayed conclusive evidence in the form of the weekly
paycheck he had received that morning. It did not, naturally, indicate
he was drawing the salary of a space pilot. Betty looked thoughtful.
  
 
  "I'm retiring in six months if I'm still alive," he said bravely,
edging the tractor into the airlock at their destination. "Made my
pile. No use pushing your luck too far."
  
 
  His charge seemed noticeably subdued, but cleared her throat to request
that Tolliver guide her to the office of the manager. She trailed along
as if with a burden of worry upon her mind, and the pilot's conscience
prickled.
  
 
 
   I'll get hold of her after Jeffers is through and set her straight
   
  ,
he resolved.
   
   It isn't really funny if the sucker is too ignorant to
know better.
   
 
