Remembering his grudge against the manager, he took pleasure in walking
in without knocking.
  
 
  "Jeffers," he announced, "this is ... just call her Betty."
  
 
  The manager's jowled features twisted into an expression of welcome as
jovial as that of a hungry crocodile.
  
 
  "Miss Koslow!" he beamed, like a politician the day before the voting.
"It certainly is an honor to have you on Ganymede with us! That's all,
Tolliver, you can go. Yes, indeed! Mr. Koslow—the president, that is:
your father—sent a message about you. I repeat, it will be an honor to
show you the ropes. Did you want something else, Tolliver?"
  
 
  "Never mind him, Mr. Jeffers," snapped the girl, in a tone new to
Tolliver. "We won't be working together, I'm afraid. You've already had
enough rope."
  
 
  Jeffers seemed to stagger standing still behind his desk. His loose
lips twitched uncertainly, and he looked questioningly to Tolliver. The
pilot stared at Betty, trying to recall pictures he had seen of the
elder Koslow. He was also trying to remember some of the lies he had
told en route from the spaceport.
  
 
  "Wh-wh-what do you mean, Miss Koslow?" Jeffers stammered.
  
 
  He darted a suspicious glare at Tolliver.
  
 
  "Mr. Jeffers," said the girl, "I may look like just another spoiled
little blonde, but the best part of this company will be mine someday.
I was not allowed to reach twenty-two without learning something about
holding on to it."
  
 
  Tolliver blinked. He had taken her for three or four years older.
Jeffers now ignored him, intent upon the girl.
  
 
  "Daddy gave me the title of tenth vice-president mostly as a joke, when
he told me to find out what was wrong with operations on Ganymede.
I have
   
   some
   
  authority, though. And you look like the source of the
trouble to me."
  
 
  "You can't prove anything," declared Jeffers hoarsely.
  
 
  "Oh, can't I? I've already seen certain evidence, and the rest won't
be hard to find. Where are your books, Mr. Jeffers? You're as good as
fired!"
  
 
  The manager dropped heavily to his chair. He stared unbelievingly at
Betty, and Tolliver thought he muttered something about "just landed."
After a moment, the big man came out of his daze enough to stab an
intercom button with his finger. He growled at someone on the other end
to come in without a countdown.
  
 
  Tolliver, hardly thinking about it, expected the someone to be
a secretary, but it turned out to be three members of Jeffers'
headquarters staff. He recognized one as Rawlins, a warehouse chief,
and guessed that the other two might be his assistants. They were large
enough.
  
 
  "No stupid questions!" Jeffers ordered. "Lock these two up while I
think!"
  
 
  Tolliver started for the door immediately, but was blocked off.
  
 
  "Where should we lock—?" the fellow paused to ask.
  
 
  Tolliver brought up a snappy uppercut to the man's chin, feeling that
it was a poor time to engage Jeffers in fruitless debate.
  
 
  In the gravity of Ganymede, the man was knocked off balance as much as
he was hurt, and sprawled on the floor.
  
 
  "I
   
   told
   
  you no questions!" bawled Jeffers.
  
 
  The fallen hero, upon arising, had to content himself with grabbing
Betty. The others were swarming over Tolliver. Jeffers came around his
desk to assist.
  
