 
  TOLLIVER'S ORBIT
  
 
  was slow—but it wasn't boring. And
   
  it would get you there—as long as
   
  you weren't going anywhere anyhow!
  
 
  By H. B. FYFE
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Worlds of If Science Fiction, September 1961.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  Johnny Tolliver scowled across the desk at his superior. His black
thatch was ruffled, as if he had been rubbed the wrong way.
  
 
  "I didn't ask you to cut out your own graft, did I?" he demanded.
"Just don't try to sucker me in on the deal. I know you're operating
something sneaky all through the colony, but it's not for me."
  
 
  The big moon-face of Jeffers, manager of the Ganymedan branch of
Koslow Spaceways, glowered back at him. Its reddish tinge brightened
the office noticeably, for such of Ganymede's surface as could be seen
through the transparent dome outside the office window was cold, dim
and rugged. The glowing semi-disk of Jupiter was more than half a
million miles distant.
  
 
  "Try not to be simple—for once!" growled Jeffers. "A little percentage
here and there on the cargoes never shows by the time figures get back
to Earth. The big jets in the home office don't care. They count it on
the estimates."
  
 
  "You asked any of them lately?" Tolliver prodded.
  
 
  "Now,
   
   listen
   
  ! Maybe they live soft back on Earth since the mines
and the Jovian satellite colonies grew; but they were out here in the
beginning, most of them.
   
   They
   
  know what it's like. D'ya think they
don't expect us to make what we can on the side?"
  
 
  Tolliver rammed his fists into the side pockets of his loose blue
uniform jacket. He shook his head, grinning resignedly.
  
 
  "You just don't listen to
   
   me
   
  ," he complained. "You know I took this
piloting job just to scrape up money for an advanced engineering degree
back on Earth. I only want to finish my year—not get into something I
can't quit."
  
 
  Jeffers fidgeted in his chair, causing it to creak under the bulk of
his body. It had been built for Ganymede, but not for Jeffers.
  
 
  "Aw, it's not like that," the manager muttered. "You can ease out
whenever your contract's up. Think we'd bend a good orbit on your
account?"
  
 
  Tolliver stared at him silently, but the other had difficulty meeting
his eye.
  
 
  "All right, then!" Jeffers snapped after a long moment. "If you want it
that way, either you get in line with us or you're through right now!"
  
 
  "You can't fire me," retorted the pilot pityingly. "I came out here
on a contract. Five hundred credits a week base pay, five hundred for
hazardous duty. How else can you get pilots out to Jupiter?"
  
 
  "Okay I can't fire you legally—as long as you report for work,"
grumbled Jeffers, by now a shade more ruddy. "We'll see how long you
keep reporting. Because you're off the Callisto run as of now! Sit in
your quarters and see if the company calls
   
   that
   
  hazardous duty!"
  
 
  "Doesn't matter," answered Tolliver, grinning amiably. "The hazardous
part is just being on the same moon as you for the next six months."
  
 
  He winked and walked out, deliberately leaving the door open behind him
so as to enjoy the incoherent bellowing that followed him.
  
 
 
   Looks like a little vacation
   
  , he thought, unperturbed.
   
   He'll come
around. I just want to get back to Earth with a clean rep. Let Jeffers
and his gang steal the Great Red Spot off Jupiter if they like! It's
their risk.
   
 
