Tolliver began to have his doubts the next day; which was "Tuesday"
by the arbitrary calender constructed to match Ganymede's week-long
journey around Jupiter.
  
 
  His contract guaranteed a pilot's rating, but someone had neglected to
specify the type of craft to be piloted.
  
 
  On the bulletin board, Tolliver's name stood out beside the number
of one of the airtight tractors used between the dome city and the
spaceport, or for hauling cross-country to one of the mining domes.
  
 
  He soon found that there was nothing for him to do but hang around the
garage in case a spaceship should land. The few runs to other domes
seemed to be assigned to drivers with larger vehicles.
  
 
  The following day was just as boring, and the next more so. He swore
when he found the assignment unchanged by "Friday." Even the reflection
that it was payday was small consolation.
  
 
  "Hey, Johnny!" said a voice at his shoulder. "The word is that they're
finally gonna trust you to take that creeper outside."
  
 
  Tolliver turned to see Red Higgins, a regular driver.
  
 
  "What do you mean?"
  
 
  "They say some home-office relative is coming in on the
   
   Javelin
   
  ."
  
 
  "What's wrong with that?" asked Tolliver. "Outside of the way they keep
handing out soft jobs to nephews, I mean."
  
 
  "Aah, these young punks just come out for a few months so they can go
back to Earth making noises like spacemen. Sometimes there's no reason
but them for sending a ship back with a crew instead of in an economy
orbit. Wait till you see the baggage you'll have to load!"
  
 
  Later in the day-period, Tolliver recalled this warning. Under a
portable, double-chambered plastic dome blown up outside the ship's
airlock, a crewman helped him load two trunks and a collection of bags
into the tractor. He was struggling to suppress a feeling of outrage at
the waste of fuel involved when the home-office relative emerged.
  
 
  She was about five feet four and moved as if she walked lightly even
in stronger gravity than Ganymede's. Her trim coiffure was a shade too
blonde which served to set off both the blue of her eyes and the cap
apparently won from one of the pilots. She wore gray slacks and a heavy
sweater, like a spacer.
  
 
  "Sorry to keep you waiting," she said, sliding into the seat beside
Tolliver. "By the way, just call me Betty."
  
 
  "Sure," agreed Tolliver thinking,
   
   Ohmigod! Trying already to be just
one of the gang, instead of Lady Betty! Is her old man the treasurer,
or does he just know where bodies are buried?
   
 
 
  "They were making dates," said the girl. "Were they ribbing me, or is
it true that none of the four of them goes back with the ship?"
  
 
  "It's true enough," Tolliver assured her. "We need people out here, and
it costs a lot to make the trip. They found they could send back loaded
ships by 'automatic' flight—that is, a long, slow, economical orbit
and automatic signalling equipment. Then they're boarded approaching
Earth's orbit and landed by pilots who don't have to waste their time
making the entire trip."
  
