Tolliver found himself dumped on the floor of an empty office in the
adjoining warehouse building. It seemed to him that a long time had
been spent in carrying him there.
  
 
  He heard an indignant yelp, and realized that the girl had been pitched
in with him. The snapping of a lock was followed by the tramp of
departing footsteps and then by silence.
  
 
  After considering the idea a few minutes, Tolliver managed to sit up.
  
 
  He had his wind back. But when he fingered the swelling lump behind his
left ear, a sensation befuddled him momentarily.
  
 
  "I'm sorry about that," murmured Betty.
  
 
  Tolliver grunted. Sorrow would not reduce the throbbing, nor was he
in a mood to undertake an explanation of why Jeffers did not like him
anyway.
  
 
  "I think perhaps you're going to have a shiner," remarked the girl.
  
 
  "Thanks for letting me know in time," said Tolliver.
  
 
  The skin under his right eye did feel a trifle tight, but he could see
well enough. The abandoned and empty look of the office worried him.
  
 
  "What can we use to get out of here?" he mused.
  
 
  "Why should we try?" asked the girl. "What can he do?"
  
 
  "You'd be surprised. How did you catch on to him so soon?"
  
 
  "Your paycheck," said Betty. "As soon as I saw that ridiculous amount,
it was obvious that there was gross mismanagement here. It had to be
Jeffers."
  
 
  Tolliver groaned.
  
 
  "Then, on the way over here, he as good as admitted everything. You
didn't hear him, I guess. Well, he seemed to be caught all unaware, and
seemed to blame you for it."
  
 
  "Sure!" grumbled the pilot. "He thinks I told you he was grafting or
smuggling, or whatever he has going for him here. That's why I want to
get out of here—before I find myself involved in some kind of fatal
accident!"
  
 
  "What do you know about the crooked goings-on here?" asked Betty after
a startled pause.
  
 
  "Nothing," retorted Tolliver. "Except that there are some. There are
rumors, and I had a halfway invitation to join in. I think he sells
things to the mining colonies and makes a double profit for himself by
claiming the stuff lost in transit. You didn't think you scared him
that bad over a little slack managing?"
  
 
  The picture of Jeffers huddled with his partners in the headquarters
building, plotting the next move, brought Tolliver to his feet.
  
 
  There was nothing in the unused office but an old table and half a
dozen plastic crates. He saw that the latter contained a mess of
discarded records.
  
 
  "Better than nothing at all," he muttered.
  
 
  He ripped out a double handful of the forms, crumpled them into a pile
at the doorway, and pulled out his cigarette lighter.
  
 
  "What do you think you're up to?" asked Betty with some concern.
  
 
  "This plastic is tough," said Tolliver, "but it will bend with enough
heat. If I can kick loose a hinge, maybe we can fool them yet!"
  
 
  He got a little fire going, and fed it judiciously with more papers.
  
 
  "You know," he reflected, "it might be better for you to stay here.
He can't do much about you, and you don't have any real proof just by
yourself."
  
 
  "I'll come along with you, Tolliver," said the girl.
  
 
  "No, I don't think you'd better."
  
 
  "Why not?"
  
 
  "Well ... after all, what would he dare do? Arranging an accident to
the daughter of the boss isn't something that he can pull off without a
lot of investigation. He'd be better off just running for it."
  
 
  "Let's not argue about it," said Betty, a trifle pale but looking
determined. "I'm coming with you. Is that stuff getting soft yet?"
  
 
  Tolliver kicked at the edge of the door experimentally. It seemed to
give slightly, so he knocked the burning papers aside and drove his
heel hard at the corner below the hinge.
  
 
  The plastic yielded.
  
 
  "That's enough already, Tolliver," whispered the girl. "We can crawl
through!"
  
