It was a long mile, even at the pace human muscles could achieve on
Ganymede. They took one short rest, during which Tolliver was forced
to explain away the dangers of slides and volcanic puffballs. He
admitted to having exaggerated slightly. In the end, they reached the
spaceship.
  
 
  There seemed to be no one about. The landing dome had been collapsed
and stored, and the ship's airlock port was closed.
  
 
  "That's all right," Tolliver told the girl. "We can get in with no
trouble."
  
 
  It was when he looked about to make sure that they were unobserved that
he caught a glimpse of motion back toward the city. He peered at the
spot through the dim light. After a moment, he definitely recognized
the outline of a tractor breasting a rise in the ground and tilting
downward again.
  
 
  "In fact, we
   
   have
   
  to get in to stay out of trouble," he said to Betty.
  
 
  He located the switch-cover in the hull, opened it and activated the
mechanism that swung open the airlock and extended the ladder.
  
 
  It took him considerable scrambling to boost the girl up the ladder and
inside, but he managed. They passed through the airlock, fretting at
the time required to seal, pump air and open the inner hatch; and then
Tolliver led the way up another ladder to the control room. It was a
clumsy trip in their spacesuits, but he wanted to save time.
  
 
 
 
  In the control room, he shoved the girl into an acceleration seat,
glanced at the gauges and showed her how to open her helmet.
  
 
  "Leave the suit on," he ordered, getting in the first word while she
was still shaking her head. "It will help a little on the takeoff."
  
 
  "Takeoff!" shrilled Betty. "What do you think you're going to do? I
just want to use the radio or TV!"
  
 
  "That tractor will get here in a minute or two. They might cut your
conversation kind of short. Now shut up and let me look over these
dials!"
  
 
  He ran a practiced eye over the board, reading the condition of the
ship. It pleased him. Everything was ready for a takeoff into an
economy orbit for Earth. He busied himself making a few adjustments,
doing his best to ignore the protests from his partner in crime. He
warned her the trip might be long.
  
 
  "I told you not to come," he said at last. "Now sit back!"
  
 
  He sat down and pushed a button to start the igniting process.
  
 
  In a moment, he could feel the rumble of the rockets through the deck,
and then it was out of his hands for several minutes.
  
 
  "That wasn't so bad," Betty admitted some time later. "Did you go in
the right direction?"
  
 
  "Who knows?" retorted Tolliver. "There wasn't time to check
   
   everything
   
  . We'll worry about that after we make your call."
  
 
  "Oh!" Betty looked helpless. "It's in my pocket."
  
 
  Tolliver sighed. In their weightless state, it was no easy task to pry
her out of the spacesuit. He thought of inquiring if she needed any
further help, but reminded himself that this was the boss's daughter.
When Betty produced a memo giving frequency and call sign, he set about
making contact.
  
 
  It took only a few minutes, as if the channel had been monitored
expectantly, and the man who flickered into life on the screen wore a
uniform.
  
 
  "Space Patrol?" whispered Tolliver incredulously.
  
 
  "That's right," said Betty. "Uh ... Daddy made arrangements for me."
  
 
  Tolliver held her in front of the screen so she would not float out
of range of the scanner and microphone. As she spoke, he stared
exasperatedly at a bulkhead, marveling at the influence of a man who
could arrange for a cruiser to escort his daughter to Ganymede and
wondering what was behind it all.
  
 
  When he heard Betty requesting assistance in arresting Jeffers and
reporting the manager as the head of a ring of crooks, he began to
suspect. He also noticed certain peculiarities about the remarks of the
Patrolman.
  
