For one thing, though the officer seemed well acquainted with Betty, he
never addressed her by the name of Koslow. For another, he accepted the
request as if he had been hanging in orbit merely until learning who to
go down after.
  
 
 
   They really sent her out to nail someone
   
  , Tolliver realized.
   
   Of
course, she stumbled onto Jeffers by plain dumb luck. But she had an
idea of what to look for. How do I get into these things? She might
have got me killed!
   
 
 
  "We do have one trouble," he heard Betty saying. "This tractor driver,
Tolliver, saved my neck by making the ship take off somehow, but he
says it's set for a six-month orbit, or economy flight. Whatever they
call it. I don't think he has any idea where we're headed."
  
 
  Tolliver pulled her back, holding her in mid-air by the slack of her
sweater.
  
 
  "Actually, I have a fine idea," he informed the officer coldly. "I
happen to be a qualified space pilot. Everything here is under control.
If Miss Koslow thinks you should arrest Jeffers, you can call us later
on this channel."
  
 
  "Miss Koslow?" repeated the spacer. "Did she tell you—well, no matter!
If you'll be okay, we'll attend to the other affair immediately."
  
 
  He signed off promptly. The pilot faced Betty, who looked more offended
than reassured at discovering his status.
  
 
  "This 'Miss Koslow' business," he said suspiciously. "He sounded funny
about that."
  
 
  The girl grinned.
  
 
  "Relax, Tolliver," she told him. "Did you really believe Daddy would
send his own little girl way out here to Ganymede to look for whoever
was gypping him?"
  
 
  "You ... you...?"
  
 
  "Sure. The name's Betty Hanlon. I work for a private investigating
firm. If old Koslow had a son to impersonate—"
  
 
  "I'd be stuck for six months in this orbit with some brash young man,"
Tolliver finished for her. "I guess it's better this way," he said
meditatively a moment later.
  
 
  "Oh, come
   
   on
   
  ! Can't they get us back? How can you tell where we're
going?"
  
 
  "I know enough to check takeoff time. It was practically due anyhow, so
we'll float into the vicinity of Earth at about the right time to be
picked up."
  
 
  He went on to explain something of the tremendous cost in fuel
necessary to make more than minor corrections to their course. Even
though the Patrol ship could easily catch the slow freighter, bringing
along enough fuel to head back would be something else again.
  
 
  "We'll just have to ride it out," he said sympathetically. "The ship is
provisioned according to law, and you were probably going back anyhow."
  
 
  "I didn't expect to so soon."
  
 
  "Yeah, you were pretty lucky. They'll think you're a marvel to crack
the case in about three hours on Ganymede."
  
 
  "Great!" muttered Betty. "What a lucky girl I am!"
  
 
  "Yes," admitted Tolliver, "there
   
   are
   
  problems. If you like, we might
get the captain of that Patrol ship to legalize the situation by TV."
  
 
  "I can see you're used to sweeping girls off their feet," she commented
sourly.
  
 
  "The main problem is whether you can cook."
  
 
  Betty frowned at him.
  
 
  "I'm pretty good with a pistol," she offered, "or going over crooked
books. But cook? Sorry."
  
 
  "Well, one of us had better learn, and I'll have other things to do."
  
 
  "I'll think about it," promised the girl, staring thoughtfully at the
deck.
  
 
  Tolliver anchored himself in a seat and grinned as he thought about it
too.
  
 
 
   After a while
   
  , he promised himself,
   
   I'll explain how I cut the fuel
flow and see if she's detective enough to suspect that we're just
orbiting Ganymede!
   
 
