 
  TROUBLE ON TYCHO
  
 
  By NELSON S. BOND
  
 
  Isobar and his squeeze-pipes were the bane of
   
  the Moon Station's existence. But there came
   
  the day when his comrades found that the worth
   
  of a man lies sometimes in his nuisance value.
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Planet Stories March 1943.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  The audiophone buzzed thrice—one long, followed by two shorts—and
Isobar Jones pressed the stud activating its glowing scanner-disc.
  
 
  "Hummm?" he said absent-mindedly.
  
 
  The selenoplate glowed faintly, and the image of the Dome Commander
appeared.
  
 
  "Report ready, Jones?"
  
 
  "Almost," acknowledged Isobar gloomily. "It prob'ly ain't right,
though. How anybody can be expected to get
   
   anything
   
  right on this
dagnabbed hunk o' green cheese—"
  
 
  "Send it up," interrupted Colonel Eagan, "as soon as you can. Sparks is
making Terra contact now. That is all."
  
 
  "That ain't all!" declared Isobar indignantly. "How about my bag—?"
  
 
  It
   
   was all
   
  , so far as the D.C. was concerned. Isobar was talking
to himself. The plate dulled. Isobar said, "Nuts!" and returned to
his duties. He jotted neat ditto marks under the word "Clear" which,
six months ago, he had placed beneath the column headed:
   
   Cond. of
Obs.
   
  He noted the proper figures under the headings
   
   Sun Spots
   
  :
   
   Max
Freq.
   
  —
   
   Min. Freq.
   
  ; then he sketched careful curves in blue and red
ink upon the Mercator projection of Earth which was his daily work
sheet.
  
 
  This done, he drew a clean sheet of paper out of his desk drawer,
frowned thoughtfully at the tabulated results of his observations, and
began writing.
  
 
  "
   
   Weather forecast for Terra
   
  ," he wrote, his pen making scratching
sounds.
  
 
  The audiophone rasped again. Isobar jabbed the stud and answered
without looking.
  
 
  "O.Q.," he said wearily. "O.Q. I told you it would be ready in a couple
o' minutes. Keep your pants on!"
  
 
  "I—er—I beg your pardon, Isobar?" queried a mild voice.
  
 
  Isobar started. His sallow cheeks achieved a sickly salmon hue. He
blinked nervously.
  
 
  "Oh, jumpin' jimminy!" he gulped. "
   
   You
   
  , Miss Sally! Golly—'scuse me!
I didn't realize—"
  
 
  The Dome Commander's niece giggled.
  
 
  "That's all right, Isobar. I just called to ask you about the weather
in Oceania Sector 4B next week. I've got a swimming date at Waikiki,
but I won't make the shuttle unless the weather's going to be nice."
  
 
  "It is," promised Isobar. "It'll be swell all weekend, Miss Sally.
Fine sunshiny weather. You can go."
  
 
  "That's wonderful. Thanks so much, Isobar."
  
 
  "Don't mention it, ma'am," said Isobar, and returned to his work.
  
 
  South America. Africa. Asia. Pan-Europa. Swiftly he outlined the
meteorological prospects for each sector. He enjoyed this part of his
job. As he wrote forecasts for each area, in his mind's eye he saw
himself enjoying such pastimes as each geographical division's terrain
rendered possible.
  
