Sis had insisted I come along to the geography lecture. Most of the
other girls who were going to Venus for husbands talked to each other
during the lecture, but not
   
   my
   
  sister! She hung on every word, took
notes even, and asked enough questions to make the perspiring purser
really work in those orientation periods.
  
 
  "I am very sorry, Miss Sparling," he said with pretty heavy sarcasm,
"but I cannot remember any of the agricultural products of the Macro
Continent. Since the human population is well below one per thousand
square miles, it can readily be understood that the quantity of
tilled soil, land or sub-surface, is so small that—Wait, I remember
something. The Macro Continent exports a fruit though not exactly an
edible one. The wild
   
   dunging
   
  drug is harvested there by criminal
speculators. Contrary to belief on Earth, the traffic has been growing
in recent years. In fact—"
  
 
  "Pardon me, sir," I broke in, "but doesn't
   
   dunging
   
  come only from
Leif Erickson Island off the Moscow Peninsula of the Macro Continent?
You remember, purser—Wang Li's third exploration, where he proved the
island and the peninsula didn't meet for most of the year?"
  
 
  The purser nodded slowly. "I forgot," he admitted. "Sorry, ladies, but
the boy's right. Please make the correction in your notes."
  
 
  But Sis was the only one who took notes, and she didn't take that one.
She stared at me for a moment, biting her lower lip thoughtfully, while
I got sicker and sicker. Then she shut her pad with the final gesture
of the right hand that Mom used to use just before challenging the
opposition to come right down on the Council floor and debate it out
with her.
  
 
  "Ferdinand," Sis said, "let's go back to our cabin."
  
 
  The moment she sat me down and walked slowly around me, I knew I was
in for it. "I've been reading up on Venusian geography in the ship's
library," I told her in a hurry.
  
 
  "No doubt," she said drily. She shook her night-black hair out. "But
you aren't going to tell me that you read about
   
   dunging
   
  in the ship's
library. The books there have been censored by a government agent of
Earth against the possibility that they might be read by susceptible
young male minds like yours. She would not have allowed—this Terran
Agent—"
  
 
  "Paddlefoot," I sneered.
  
 
  Sis sat down hard in our zoom-air chair. "Now that's a term," she said
carefully, "that is used only by Venusian riffraff."
  
 
  "They're not!"
  
 
  "Not what?"
  
 
  "Riffraff," I had to answer, knowing I was getting in deeper all the
time and not being able to help it. I mustn't give Mr. Brown away!
"They're trappers and farmers, pioneers and explorers, who're building
Venus. And it takes a real man to build on a hot, hungry hell like
Venus."
  
 
  "Does it, now?" she said, looking at me as if I were beginning to grow
a second pair of ears. "Tell me more."
  
 
  "You can't have meek, law-abiding, women-ruled men when you start
civilization on a new planet. You've got to have men who aren't afraid
to make their own law if necessary—with their own guns. That's where
law begins; the books get written up later."
  
 
  "You're going to
   
   tell
   
  , Ferdinand, what evil, criminal male is
speaking through your mouth!"
  
 
  "Nobody!" I insisted. "They're my own ideas!"
  
 
  "They are remarkably well-organized for a young boy's ideas. A boy
who, I might add, has previously shown a ridiculous but nonetheless
entirely masculine boredom with political philosophy. I plan to have a
government career on that new planet you talk about, Ferdinand—after
I have found a good, steady husband, of course—and I don't look
forward to a masculinist radical in the family. Now, who has been
filling your head with all this nonsense?"
  
