I crept up to the porthole nearest it and could just barely make out
the stern jets where it was plastered against the hull. Then I walked
under the sign and tried to figure the way you were supposed to get
into it. There was a very thin line going around in a big circle that I
knew must be the door. But I couldn't see any knobs or switches to open
it with. Not even a button you could press.
  
 
  That meant it was a sonic lock like the kind we had on the outer keeps
back home in Undersea. But knock or voice? I tried the two knock
combinations I knew, and nothing happened. I only remembered one voice
key—might as well see if that's it, I figured.
  
 
  "Twenty, Twenty-three. Open Sesame."
  
 
  For a second, I thought I'd hit it just right out of all the million
possible combinations—The door clicked inward toward a black hole, and
a hairy hand as broad as my shoulders shot out of the hole. It closed
around my throat and plucked me inside as if I'd been a baby sardine.
  
 
  I bounced once on the hard lifeboat floor. Before I got my breath and
sat up, the door had been shut again. When the light came on, I found
myself staring up the muzzle of a highly polished blaster and into the
cold blue eyes of the biggest man I'd ever seen.
  
 
 
 
  He was wearing a one-piece suit made of some scaly green stuff that
looked hard and soft at the same time.
  
 
  His boots were made of it too, and so was the hood hanging down his
back.
  
 
  And his face was brown. Not just ordinary tan, you understand, but the
deep, dark, burned-all-the-way-in brown I'd seen on the lifeguards
in New Orleans whenever we took a surface vacation—the kind of tan
that comes from day after broiling day under a really hot Sun. His
hair looked as if it had once been blond, but now there were just long
combed-out waves with a yellowish tinge that boiled all the way down
to his shoulders.
  
 
  I hadn't seen hair like that on a man except maybe in history books;
every man I'd ever known had his hair cropped in the fashionable
soup-bowl style. I was staring at his hair, almost forgetting about the
blaster which I knew it was against the law for him to have at all,
when I suddenly got scared right through.
  
 
  His eyes.
  
 
  They didn't blink and there seemed to be no expression around them.
Just coldness. Maybe it was the kind of clothes he was wearing that did
it, but all of a sudden I was reminded of a crocodile I'd seen in a
surface zoo that had stared quietly at me for twenty minutes until it
opened two long tooth-studded jaws.
  
 
  "Green shatas!" he said suddenly. "Only a tadpole. I must be getting
jumpy enough to splash."
  
 
  Then he shoved the blaster away in a holster made of the same scaly
leather, crossed his arms on his chest and began to study me. I grunted
to my feet, feeling a lot better. The coldness had gone out of his eyes.
  
 
  I held out my hand the way Sis had taught me. "My name is Ferdinand
Sparling. I'm very pleased to meet you, Mr.—Mr.—"
  
 
  "Hope for your sake," he said to me, "that you aren't what you
seem—tadpole brother to one of them husbandless anura."
  
 
  "
   
   What?
   
  "
  
 
  "A 'nuran is a female looking to nest. Anura is a herd of same. Come
from Flatfolk ways."
  
 
  "Flatfolk are the Venusian natives, aren't they? Are you a Venusian?
What part of Venus do you come from? Why did you say you hope—"
  
 
  He chuckled and swung me up into one of the bunks that lined the
lifeboat. "Questions you ask," he said in his soft voice. "Venus is a
sharp enough place for a dryhorn, let alone a tadpole dryhorn with a
boss-minded sister."
  
 
  "I'm not a dryleg," I told him proudly. "
   
   We're
   
  from Undersea."
  
 
  "
   
   Dryhorn
   
  , I said, not dryleg. And what's Undersea?"
  
 
  "Well, in Undersea we called foreigners and newcomers drylegs. Just
like on Venus, I guess, you call them dryhorns." And then I told him
how Undersea had been built on the bottom of the Gulf of Mexico, when
the mineral resources of the land began to give out and engineers
figured that a lot could still be reached from the sea bottoms.
  
