It was Ralph Breadon. Gregory looked at him slowly, uncomprehendingly
at first. His hand was reluctant to leave the guiding-gear of the
small ship which was, now, all that remained to them of civilization
and civilization's wondrous accomplishments. He had not realized until
this moment that for a while ... for a short, eager, pulse-quickening
while ... on his alertness, in his hands, had depended the destinies
of ten men and women. But he knew, suddenly and completely, that it
was for this single moment his whole lifetime had waited. It was for
this brief moment of command that some intuition, some instinct greater
than knowledge, had prepared him. This was why he, an Earthlubber, had
studied astrogation, made a hobby of the empire of the stars. That he
might be fitted to command when all others failed. And now—
  
 
  And now the moment was past, and he was once again Gregory Malcolm,
mild, lean, pale, bespectacled secretary to J. Foster Andrews. And the
man at his side was Ralph Breadon, socialite and gentleman sportsman,
trained pilot. And in Malcolm the habit of obedience was strong....
  
 
  "Very well, sir," he said. And he turned over the controls.
  
 
  What happened then was unfortunate. It might just as well have happened
to Malcolm, though afterward no one could ever say with certainty.
However that was, either by carelessness or malfortune or inefficiency,
once-thwarted disaster struck again at the little party on the
life-skiff. At the instant Breadon's hand seized the controls the skiff
jerked suddenly as though struck with a ponderous fist, its throbbing
motors choked and snarled in a high, rising crescendo of torment that
lost itself in supersonic heights, and the ship that had been drifting
easily and under control to the planet beneath now dipped viciously.
  
 
  The misfortune was that too many huddled in the tiny space understood
the operation of the life-skiff, and what must be done instantly. And
that neither pilot was as yet in control of the ship. Breadon's hand
leaped for the Dixie rod, so, too, did Malcolm's—and across both their
bodies came the arm of Sparks Hannigan, searching the controls.
  
 
  In the scramble someone's sleeve brushed the banks of control-keys. The
motors, killed, soughed into silence. The ship rocked into a spin. Greg
cried out, his voice a strange harshness in his ears; Breadon cursed;
one of the women bleated fearfully.
  
 
  Then Breadon, still cursing, fought all hands from the controls but his
own. And the man was not without courage. For all could see plainly,
in the illumined
   
   perilens
   
  , how near to swift death that moment of
uncertainty had led them. The skiff, which an instant before had been
high in the stratosphere of this unknown planet ... or satellite
or whatever it might be ... was now flashing toward hard ground at
lightning speed.
  
