Maud Andrews put down her fork with a clatter. "Oh, for goodness sakes,
Jonathan, shut up and give the boy time to explain! He's standing
there with his mouth gaping like a rain-spout, trying to get a word in
edgewise! What's the trouble, Gregory?" She turned to Greg, as Jonathan
Foster Andrews wheezed into startled silence. "
   
   That?
   
  "
  
 
  She glanced at the quartzite dome, beyond which the veil of iridescence
wove and cross-wove and shimmered like a pallid aurora.
  
 
  Greg nodded. "Yes, Miss Andrews."
  
 
  Enid Andrews spoke languidly from the other end of the table.
  
 
  "But what is it, Gregory? A local phenomenon?"
  
 
  "You might call it that," said Greg, selecting his words cautiously.
"It's an ionized field into which we've blasted. It—it—shouldn't stay
with us long. But while it persists, our radio will be blanketed out."
  
 
  Breadon's chestnut head came up suddenly, sharply.
  
 
  "Ionization! That means atmosphere!"
  
 
  Greg said, "Yes."
  
 
  "And an atmosphere means a body in space somewhere near—" Breadon
stopped, bit his lip before the appeal in Malcolm's eyes, tried to pass
it off easily. "Oh, well—a change of scenery, what?"
  
 
  But the moment of alarm in his voice had not passed unnoticed. Crystal
Andrews spoke for all of them, her voice preternaturally quiet.
  
 
  "You're hiding something, Malcolm. What is it? Is there—danger?"
  
 
  But Greg didn't have to answer that question. From the doorway a harsh,
defiantly strident voice answered for him. The voice of Bert Andrews,
Crystal's older brother.
  
 
  "Danger? You're damn right there's danger! What's the matter with
you folks—are you all deaf, dumb and blind? We've been caught in a
space-vortex for hours. Now we're in the H-layer of a planet we can't
even see—and in fifteen minutes or fifteen seconds we may all be
smashed as flat as pancakes!"
  
 
  The proclamation brought them out of their chairs. Greg's heart sank;
his vain plea, "Mr. Andrews—" was lost in the medley of Crystal's
sudden gasp, Enid Andrews' short, choking scream, J. Foster's bellowing
roar at his only son.
  
 
  "Bert—you're drunk!"
  
 
  Bert weaved precariously from the doorway, laughed in his father's face.
  
 
  "Sure I'm drunk! Why not? If you're smart you'll get drunk, too. The
whole damn lot of you!" He flicked a derisive hand toward Greg. "You
too, Boy Scout! What were you trying to do—hide the bad news from
them? Well, it's no use. Everybody might as well know the worst. We're
gone gooses ... geeses ... aw, what the hell! Dead ducks!" He fell
into a chair, sprawled there laughing mirthlessly with fear riding the
too-high notes of his laughter.
  
 
  J. Foster turned to his secretary slowly. His ire had faded; there was
only deep concern in his voice.
  
 
  "Is he telling the truth, Malcolm?"
  
 
  Greg said soberly, "Partly, sir. He's overstating the danger—but
there is danger. We are caught in a space-vortex, and as Mr.
Breadon realized, the presence of these ionics means we're in the
Heaviside-layer of some heavenly body. But we may not crack up."
  
 
  Maud Andrews glanced at him shrewdly.
  
 
  "Is there anything we can do?"
  
 
  "Not a thing. The officers on the bridge are doing everything possible."
  
 
  "In that case," said the older woman, "we might as well finish our
breakfast. Here, Cuddles! Come to momsy!" She sat down again. Greg
looked at her admiringly. Ralph Breadon stroked his brown jaw. He said,
"The life-skiffs?"
  
 
  "A last resort," said Greg. "Sparks promised he'd let me know if it
were necessary. We'll hope it's not—"
  
 
  But it was a vain hope, vainly spoken in the last, vain moment. For
even as he phrased the hopeful words, came the sound of swift, racing
footsteps up the corridor. Into the dining dome burst Hannigan, eyes
hot with excitement. And his cry dispelled Greg's final hopes for
safety.
  
 
  "Everybody—the Number Four life-skiff—
   
   quick
   
  ! We've been caught in a
grav-drag and we're going to crash!"
  
 
 
  II
  
 
  Those next hectic moments were never afterward very clear in Greg
Malcolm's memory. He had a confused recollection of hearing Sparks'
warning punctuated by a loud, shrill scream which he vaguely identified
as emanating from Mrs. Andrews' throat ... he was conscious of feeling,
suddenly, beneath his feet the sickening, quickening lurch of a ship
out of control, gripped by gravitational forces beyond its power to
allay ... he recalled his own voice dinning in his ears as, incredibly,
with Sparks, he took command of the hasty flight from the dining dome
down the corridor to the aft ramp, up the ramp, across girdered beams
in the super-structure to the small, independently motored rocket-skiff
cradled there.
  
 
  He was aware, too, of strangely disconnected incidents happening around
him, he being a part of them but seeming to be only a disinterested
spectator to their strangeness. Of his forcing Maud Andrews toward
the door of the dome ... of her pushing back against him with all the
weight of her body ... of her irate voice, "Cuddles! I forgot him!"
Then the shrill excited yapping of the poodle cradled against her as
they charged on down the corridor.
  
 
  J. Foster waddling beside him, tugging at his arm, panting, "The
officers?" and his own unfelt assurance. "They can take care of
themselves. It's a general 'bandon ship." Enid Andrews stumbling over
the hem of a filmy peignoir ... himself bending to lift her boldly and
bodily, sweating palms feeling the warm animal heat of her excited
body hot beneath them ... Crystal Andrews stopping suddenly, crying,
"'Tina!" ... and Hannigan's reply, "Your maid? I woke her. She's in the
life-skiff." Bert Andrews stopping suddenly, being sick in the middle
of the corridor, his drunkenness losing itself in the thick, sure
nausea of the ever-increasing unsteadiness beneath their feet.
  
 
  Then the life-skiff, the clang of metal as Hannigan slammed the
port behind the last of them, the fumbling for a lock-stud, the
quick, grateful pant of the miniature hypos, and a weird feeling of
weightlessness, rushingness, hurtlingness as his eardrums throbbed and
his mouth tasted brassy and bloody with the fierce velocity of their
escape.
  
 
  Sense and meaning returned only when all this ended. As one waking from
a nightmare dream, Greg Malcolm returned to a world he could recognize.
A tiny world, encased within the walls of a forty-foot life-skiff. A
world peopled too scantily. Andrews, his wife and sister, his son and
daughter; 'Tina Laney, the maid; Breadon, Hannigan, young Tommy O'Doul,
the cabin-boy (though where he had come from, or when, Greg did not
know). And himself. In a life-skiff. In space.
  
 
  Somewhere in space. He looked through the
   
   perilens
   
  . What he saw then
he might better never have seen. For that shimmering pink-ochre veil
had wisped away, now, and in the clean, cold, bitter-clear light of a
distant sun he watched the death-dive of the yacht
   
   Carefree
   
  .
  
 
  Like a vast silver top, spinning heedlessly, wildly, it streaked toward
a mottled gray and green, brown and dun, hard and crushing-brutal
terrain below. Still at its helm stood someone, for even in that last
dreadful moment burst from its nose-jets a ruddy mushroom of flame that
tried to, but could not, brake the dizzy fall.
  
 
  For an instant Greg's eyes, stingingly blinded and wet, thought they
glimpsed a wee black mote dancing from the bowels of the
   
   Carefree
   
  ; a
mote that might be another skiff like their own. But he could not be
sure, and then the
   
   Carefree
   
  was accelerating with such violence and
speed that the eye could see it only as a flaming silver lance against
the ugly earth-carcase beneath, and then it struck and a carmine bud of
flame burst and flowered for an instant, and that was all....
  
 
  And Greg Malcolm turned from the
   
   perilens
   
  , shaken.
  
 
  Hannigan said, "It's over?" and Greg nodded.
  
 
  Hannigan said, "The other skiffs? Did they break free, or were they
caught?"
  
 
  "I don't know. I couldn't see for sure."
  
 
  "You must have seen. Are we the only ones?"
  
 
  "I couldn't see for sure. Maybe. Maybe not."
  
 
  Then a body scrambled forward, pressing through the tightness of other
huddled bodies, and there was a hand upon his elbow. "I'll take over
now, Malcolm."
  
