Gregory Malcolm climbed down the Jacob's-ladder and strode briskly
through the labyrinthine corridors that were the entrails of the
space yacht
   
   Carefree
   
  . He paused once to peer through a
   
   perilens
   
  set into the ship's port plates. It was a weird sight that met his
gaze. Not space, ebony-black and bejewelled with a myriad flaming
splotches of color; not the old, familiar constellations treading
their ever-lasting, inexorable paths about the perimeter of Sol's
tiny universe, but a shimmering webwork of light, so tortured-violet
that the eyes ached to look upon it. This was the mad typhoon of
space-atmospherics through which the
   
   Carefree
   
  was now being twisted,
topsy-turvy, toward a nameless goal.
  
 
  He moved on, approaching at last the quartzite-paned observation
rotunda which was the dining dome of the ship.
  
 
  His footsteps slowed as he composed himself to face those within. As
he hesitated in the dimly-lighted passage, a trick of lights on glass
mirrored to him the room beyond. He could see the others while they
were as yet unaware of his presence. Their voices reached him clearly.
  
 
  J. Foster Andrews, his employer and the employer of the ten thousand
or more men and women who worked for Galactic Metals Corporation,
dominated the head of the table. He was a plump, impatient little
Napoleon. Opposite him, calm, graceful, serene, tastefully garbed and
elaborately coiffured even here in deep space, three weeks from the
nearest beauty shop, sat his wife, Enid.
  
 
  On Andrews' right sat his sister, Maud. Not young, features plain as a
mud fence, but charming despite her age and homeliness simply because
of her eyes; puckish, shrewdly intelligent eyes, constantly aglint with
suppressed humor at—guessed Greg—the amusing foibles and frailties of
those about her.
  
 
  She gave her breakfast the enthusiastic attention of one too old and
shapeless to be concerned with such folderol as calories and dietetics,
pausing only from time to time to share smidgeons of food with a
watery-eyed scrap of white, curly fluff beside her chair. Her pet
poodle, whom she called by the opprobrious title of "Cuddles."
  
 
  On J. Foster's left sat his daughter, Crystal. She it was who caused
Gregory Malcolm's staid, respectable heart to give a little lurch as
he glimpsed her reflected vision—all gold and crimson and cream—in
the glistening walls. If Crystal was her name, so, too, was crystal her
loveliness.
  
 
  But—Greg shook his head—but she was not for him. She was already
pledged to the young man seated beside her. Ralph Breadon. He turned
to murmur something to her as Greg watched; Greg saw and admired and
disliked his rangy height, his sturdy, well-knit strength, the rich
brownness of his skin, his hair, his eyes.
  
 
  The sound of his own name startled Greg.
  
 
  "Malcolm!" called the man at the head of the table. "Malcolm! Now where
in blazes is he, anyhow?" he demanded of no one in particular, everyone
in general. He spooned a dab of liquid gold from a Limoges preserve
jar, tongued it suspiciously, frowned. "Bitter!" he complained.
  
 
  "It's the very
   
   best
   
  Martian honey," said his wife.
  
 
  "Drylands clover," added Crystal.
  
 
  "It's still bitter," said J. Foster petulantly.
  
 
  His sister sniffed. "Nonsense! It's delightful."
  
 
  "I say it's bitter," repeated Andrews sulkily. And lifted his voice
again. "
   
   Malcolm!
   
  Where
   
   are
   
  you?"
  
 
  "You called me, sir?" said Malcolm, moving into the room. He nodded
politely to the others. "Good morning, Mrs. Andrews ... Miss
Andrews ... Mr. Breadon...."
  
 
  "Oh, sit down!" snapped J. Foster. "Sit down here and stop bobbing your
head like a teetotum! Had your breakfast? The honey's no good; it's
bitter." He glared at his sister challengingly. "Where have you been,
anyway? What kind of secretary are you? Have you been up to the radio
turret? How's the market today? Is Galactic up or down?"
  
 
  Malcolm said, "I don't know, sir."
  
 
  "Fine! Fine!" Andrews rattled on automatically before the words
registered. Then he started, his face turning red. "Eh? What's that?
Don't know! What do you mean, you don't know? I pay you to—"
  
 
  "There's no transmission, sir," said Greg quietly.
  
 
  "No trans—nonsense! Of course there's transmission! I put a million
credits into this ship. Finest space-yacht ever built. Latest equipment
throughout. Sparks is drunk, that's what you mean! Well, you hop right
up there and—"
  
