Greg Malcolm saw. He also saw other things. That their landing-spot,
while excellent for its purpose, was not by any manner of means an
ideal campsite. It was a small, flat basin of sandy soil, rimmed by
shallow mountains. His gaze sought these hills, looked approvingly on
their greenness, upon the multitude of dark pock-marks dotting them.
These caves, were they not the habitations of potential enemies, might
well become the sanctuaries of spacewrecked men.
  
 
  He saw, also, a thin ribbon of silver sheering the face of the northern
hills. His gaze, rising still skyward, saw other things—
  
 
  He nodded. He knew, now, where they were. Or approximately. There was
but one planet in the solar system which boasted such a phenomenon. The
apparent distance of the Sun, judged by its diminished disc, argued
his judgment to be correct. The fact that they had surged through an
atmospheric belt for some length of time before finally meeting with
disaster.
  
 
  "Titan," he said. "Hyperion possibly. But probably Titan."
  
 
  Sparks' gaze, following Greg's upward, contracted in an expression of
dismay.
  
 
  "Dirty cow! You mean that's where we are?"
  
 
  "I believe so. There's Saturn, our mother planet, looming above us as
large as a dinner plate. And the grav-drag here is almost Earth norm.
Titan has a 3,000 mile diameter. That, combined with the Saturnian
tractile constant, would give us a strong pull."
  
 
  Sparks wailed, "But Titan! Great morning, Malcolm, nobody ever comes
to Titan! There ain't no mines here, no colonies, no—" He stopped
suddenly, his eyes widening yet farther. "And, hey—this place is
   
   dangerous
   
  ! There are—"
  
 
  "I know it," said Greg swiftly, quietly. "Shut up, Sparks. No use
telling the others. If they don't guess it themselves, what they don't
know won't alarm them. We've got to do something, though. Get ourselves
organized into a defensive community. That's the only way—"
  
 
  Ralph Breadon's sharp, dictatorial voice interrupted him. "Well,
Malcolm, stop soldiering and make yourself useful!"
  
 
  And J. Foster, not to have his authority usurped, supplemented the
order. "Yes, Malcolm, let's get going! No time for day-dreaming, my
man. We want action!"
  
 
  Sparks said, "Maybe you'll get it now, fatty!" under his breath, and
looked at Malcolm hopefully. But his companion merely nodded, moved
forward toward the others, quietly obedient to the command.
  
 
  "Yes, sir," he said.
  
 
  Hannigan groaned and followed him.
  
 
 
  III
  
 
  Breadon said, "All right, Tommy, dump them here. I have a few words to
say." He glanced about him pompously. "Now, folks, naturally we want
to get away from here as soon as possible. Therefore I delegate you,
Sparks, to immediately get a message off. An SOS to the nearest space
cruiser."
  
 
  Hannigan grinned. It was not a pleasant grin. He took his time
answering. He spat thoughtfully on the ground before him, lifted his
head. He said, "A message, huh?"
  
 
  "That's what I said."
  
 
  "And what'll I send it with?" drawled Sparks. "Tom-toms?"
  
 
  Breadon flushed darkly.
  
 
  "I believe the life-skiff was equipped with a radio? And theoretically
you are a radio operator?"
  
 
  "Finest radio money can buy!" interpolated J. Foster Andrews proudly.
"Put a million credits into the
   
   Carefree
   
  . Best equipment throughout."
  
 
  Sparks looked from one to another of them, grinned insolently. "You're
both right. I
   
   am
   
  a radio operator, and there
   
   was
   
  a radio. But we
crashed, remember? On account of some dope's sleeve got caught in the
master switch—"
  
 
  "That will do!" snapped Breadon angrily. He stared at the bandy-legged
little redhead. "You mean the radio was broken?"
  
 
  "It wasn't helped none. The tubes was made out of glass, and glass
don't bounce so good."
  
 
  Greg Malcolm said thoughtfully, "Sparks, can't you fix it?"
  
 
  "Well, mebbe. But not in five minutes. Maybe not in five years. I won't
know till I get going on it."
  
 
  Breadon frowned.
  
 
  "I'll handle this, Malcolm," he crisped. Again to the radioman, "Well,
you get to work on it immediately. And as soon as you get it fixed,
send out an SOS advising the patrol where we are—"
  
 
  "Speaking of which," insinuated Sparks, "where are we?"
  
 
  Breadon glared at him wrathfully.
  
 
  "Why—why on one of the satellites of Saturn, of course. Any fool can
see that!"
  
 
  "O.Q. But does any fool know which one? Or shall I tell you it's Titan?
And when you know that, then what? Titan wasn't named that on account
of it was a pimple. It's a big place. What'll I tell the Patrol?
   
   SOS.
Stranded in the middle of we-don't-know-where, somewhere on Titan,
maybe.
   
  They'll be hunting for us till we've got whiskers down to our
knees."
  
 
  Breadon's irate look vanished. He looked stricken. He said, "I—I don't
know. We have a compass—"
  
 
  Once again it was Gregory Malcolm who entered into the conversation. He
had been toying, almost absentmindedly, with a funnel taken from the
skiff's stores. Into this he had poured a small portion of water; his
right forefinger was pressed to the bottom of the tube, closing it. He
said, "I can answer part of that question now. Enough to cut the search
in half, anyway. We're in the northern hemisphere of the satellite."
  
 
  Maud Andrews looked at him sharply as if noticing him for the first
time in her life.
  
 
  "How," she asked, "did you know that, Malcolm?"
  
