  Wanderers of the Wolf Moon
  
 
  By NELSON S. BOND
  
 
  They were marooned on Titan, their ship wrecked,
   
  the radio smashed. Yet they had to exist, had
   
  to build a new life on a hostile world. And the
   
  man who assumed command was Gregory Malcolm, the
   
  bespectacled secretary—whose only adventures
   
  had come through the pages of a book.
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Planet Stories Spring 1944.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  Sparks snapped off the switches and followed him to the door of the
radio turret. Sparks was a stunted, usually-grinning, little redhead
named Hannigan. But he wasn't grinning now. He laid an anxious hand on
Greg's arm. "If I was you," he said, "if I was you, Malcolm, I don't
think I'd say nothing to the boss about this. Not just yet, anyhow."
  
 
  Greg said, "Why not?"
  
 
  Sparks spluttered and fussed and made heavy weather of answering.
  
 
  "Well, for one thing, it ain't important. It would only worry him. And
then there's the womenfolks, they scare easy. Which of course they
ain't no cause to. Atmospherics don't mean nothing. I've rode out
worse storms than this—plenty of times. And in worse crates than the
   
   Carefree
   
  ."
  
 
  Greg studied him carefully from behind trim plasta-rimmed spectacles.
He drew a deep breath. He said levelly, "So it's
   
   that
   
  bad, eh,
Sparks?"
  
 
  "What bad? I just told you—"
  
 
  "I know. Sparks, I'm not a professional spaceman. But I've studied
astrogation as few Earthlubbers have. It's been my hobby for years. And
I think I know what we're up against.
  
 
  "We hit a warp-eddy last night. We've been trapped in a vortex for
more than eight hours. Lord only knows how many hundreds of thousands
of miles we've been borne off our course. And now we've blasted into a
super-ionized belt of atmospherics. Your radio signals are blanketed.
You can't get signals in or out. We're a deaf-mute speck of metal being
whirled headlong through space. Isn't that it?"
  
 
  "I don't know what—" began Sparks hotly. Then he stopped, studied his
companion thoughtfully, nodded. "O.Q.," he confessed, "that's it. But
we ain't licked yet. We got three good men on the bridge. Townsend ...
Graves ... Langhorn. They'll pull out of this if anybody can. And they
ain't no sense in scaring the Old Man and his family."
  
 
  "I won't tell them," said Greg. "I won't tell them unless I have to.
But between you and me, what are the odds against us, Sparks?"
  
 
  The radioman shrugged.
  
 
  "Who knows? Vortices are unpredictable. Maybe the damn thing will toss
us out on the very spot it picked us up. Maybe it will give us the old
chuckeroo a million miles the other side of Pluto. Maybe it will crack
us up on an asteroid or satellite. No way of telling till it happens."
  
 
  "And the controls?"
  
 
  "As useless," said Sparks, "as a cow in a cyclone."
  
 
  "So?"
  
 
  "We sit tight," said Sparks succinctly, "and hope."
  
 
  Malcolm nodded quietly. He took off his spectacles, breathed on them,
wiped them, replaced them. He was tall and fair; in his neat, crisply
pressed business suit he appeared even slimmer than he was. But there
was no nervousness in his movements. He moved measuredly. "Well," he
said, "that appears to be that. I'm going up to the dining dome."
  
 
  Sparks stared at him querulously.
  
 
  "You're a queer duck, Malcolm. I don't think you've got a nerve in your
body."
  
 
  "Nerves are a luxury I can't afford," replied Greg. "If anything
happens—and if there's time to do so—let me know." He paused at the
door. "Good luck," he said.
  
 
  "Clear ether!" said Sparks mechanically. He stared after the other man
wonderingly for a long moment, then went back to his control banks,
shaking his head and muttering.
  
