Only a miracle, Greg knew, could save them now. An impulse spun his
head, he looked at Crystal Andrews. There was no fear in her eyes. Just
a hotness and an inexplicable anger. Beside her was the other girl, the
maid, 'Tina; she was frankly afraid. Her teeth were clenched in her
nether lip, and her eyes were wide and anxious, but she did not cry out.
  
 
  Only a miracle could save them now. But Breadon's hands performed
that miracle; his quick, nerveless, trained hands. A stud here ...
a lever there ... a swift wrenching toss of the shoulders. His face
twisted back over his shoulder, and his straining lips pulled taut
and bloodless away from his teeth. "Hold tight, folks! We're going to
bounce—"
  
 
  Then they struck!
  
 
  But they struck glancingly, as Breadon had hoped, and planned for,
and gambled on. They struck and bounced. The frail craft shivered
and groaned in metal agony, jarred across harsh soil, bounced again,
settled, nosed over and rocked to a standstill. Somewhere forward
something snapped with a shrill, high
   
   ping!
   
  of stress; somewhere aft
was the metallic flap-clanging of broken gear trailing behind them. But
they were safe.
  
 
  Breath, held so long that he could not remember its inhalation, escaped
Greg's lungs in a long sigh. "Nice work, Mr. Breadon!" he cried. "Oh,
nice work!"
  
 
  But surprisingly, savagely, Breadon turned on him.
  
 
  "It would have been
   
   better
   
  work, Malcolm, if you'd kept your damned
hands off the controls! Now see what you've done? Smashed up our skiff!
Our only—"
  
 
  "He didn't do it!" piped the shrill voice of Tommy O'Doul. "You done it
yourself, Mr. Breadon. Your sleeve. It caught the switch."
  
 
  "Quiet!" Breadon, cheeks flushed, reached out smartly, stilled
the youngster's defense with a swift, ungentle slap. "And you,
Malcolm—after this, do as you're told, and don't try to assume
responsibilities too great for you. All right, everybody. Let's get out
and see how bad the damage is."
  
 
  Instinctively Greg had surged a half step forward as Breadon silenced
the cabin boy. Now old habit and common-sense halted him. He's
overwrought, he reasoned. We're all excited and on edge. We've been to
Bedlam. Our nerves are shot. In a little while we'll all be back to
normal.
  
 
  He said quietly, "Very well, Mr. Breadon." And he climbed from the
broken skiff.
  
