 
  What is POSAT?
  
 
  By PHYLLIS STERLING SMITH
  
 
  Illustrated by ED ALEXANDER
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Galaxy Science Fiction September 1951.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
  Of course coming events cast their shadows
   
  before, but this shadow was 400 years long!
  
 
 
  The following advertisement appeared in the July 1953 issue of several
magazines:
  
 
  MASTERY OF ALL KNOWLEDGE CAN BE YOURS!
  
 
  What is the secret source of those profound
   
  principles that can solve the problems of life?
   
  Send for our FREE booklet of explanation.
  
 
  Do not be a leaf in the wind! YOU
   
  can alter the course of your life!
  
 
  Tap the treasury of Wisdom through the ages!
  
 
  The Perpetual Order of Seekers After Truth
  
 
  POSAT
  
 
  an ancient secret society
  
 
  Most readers passed it by with scarcely a glance. It was, after all,
similar to the many that had appeared through the years under the
name of that same society. Other readers, as their eyes slid over the
familiar format of the ad, speculated idly about the persistent and
mildly mysterious organization behind it. A few even resolved to clip
the attached coupon and send for the booklet—sometime—when a pen or
pencil was nearer at hand.
  
 
  Bill Evans, an unemployed pharmacist, saw the ad in a copy of
   
   Your
Life and Psychology
   
  that had been abandoned on his seat in the bus.
He filled out the blanks on the coupon with a scrap of stubby pencil.
"You can alter the course of your life!" he read again. He particularly
liked that thought, even though he had long since ceased to believe
it. He actually took the trouble to mail the coupon. After all, he
had, literally, nothing to lose, and nothing else to occupy his time.
  
 
  Miss Elizabeth Arnable was one of the few to whom the advertisement
was unfamiliar. As a matter of fact, she very seldom read a magazine.
The radio in her room took the place of reading matter, and she always
liked to think that it amused her cats as well as herself. Reading
would be so selfish under the circumstances, wouldn't it? Not but what
the cats weren't almost smart enough to read, she always said.
  
 
  It just so happened, however, that she had bought a copy of the
   
   Antivivisectionist Gazette
   
  the day before. She pounced upon the POSAT
ad as a trout might snap at a particularly attractive fly. Having
filled out the coupon with violet ink, she invented an errand that
would take her past the neighborhood post office so that she could post
it as soon as possible.
  
 
  Donald Alford, research physicist, came across the POSAT ad tucked at
the bottom of a column in
   
   The Bulletin of Physical Research
   
  . He was
engrossed in the latest paper by Dr. Crandon, a man whom he admired
from the point of view of both a former student and a fellow research
worker. Consequently, he was one of the many who passed over the POSAT
ad with the disregard accorded to any common object.
  
 
  He read with interest to the end of the article before he realized that
some component of the advertisement had been noted by a region of his
brain just beyond consciousness. It teased at him like a tickle that
couldn't be scratched until he turned back to the page.
  
 
  It was the symbol or emblem of POSAT, he realized, that had caught his
attention. The perpendicularly crossed ellipses centered with a small
black circle might almost be a conventionalized version of the Bohr
atom of helium. He smiled with mild skepticism as he read through the
printed matter that accompanied it.
  
 
  "I wonder what their racket is," he mused. Then, because his typewriter
was conveniently at hand, he carefully tore out the coupon and inserted
it in the machine. The spacing of the typewriter didn't fit the dotted
lines on the coupon, of course, but he didn't bother to correct it.
He addressed an envelope, laid it with other mail to be posted, and
promptly forgot all about it. Since he was a methodical man, it was
entrusted to the U.S. mail early the next morning, together with his
other letters.
  
 
  Three identical forms accompanied the booklet which POSAT sent in
response to the three inquiries. The booklet gave no more information
than had the original advertisement, but with considerable more
volubility. It promised the recipient the secrets of the Cosmos and the
key that would unlock the hidden knowledge within himself—if he would
merely fill out the enclosed form.
  
 
  Bill Evans, the unemployed pharmacist, let the paper lie unanswered for
several days. To be quite honest, he was disappointed. Although he had
mentally disclaimed all belief in anything that POSAT might offer, he
had watched the return mails with anticipation. His own resources were
almost at an end, and he had reached the point where intervention by
something supernatural, or at least superhuman, seemed the only hope.
  
 
  He had hoped, unreasonably, that POSAT had an answer. But time lay
heavily upon him, and he used it one evening to write the requested
information—about his employment (ha!), his religious beliefs, his
reason for inquiring about POSAT, his financial situation. Without
quite knowing that he did so, he communicated in his terse answers some
of his desperation and sense of futility.
  
 
  Miss Arnable was delighted with the opportunity for autobiographical
composition. It required five extra sheets of paper to convey all the
information that she wished to give—all about her poor, dear father
who had been a missionary to China, and the kinship that she felt
toward the mystic cults of the East, her belief that her cats were
reincarnations of her loved ones (which, she stated, derived from a
religion of the Persians; or was it the Egyptians?) and in her complete
and absolute acceptance of everything that POSAT had stated in their
booklet. And what would the dues be? She wished to join immediately.
Fortunately, dear father had left her in a comfortable financial
situation.
  
 
  To Donald Alford, the booklet seemed to confirm his suspicion that
POSAT was a racket of some sort. Why else would they be interested in
his employment or financial position? It also served to increase his
curiosity.
  
 
  "What do you suppose they're driving at?" he asked his wife Betty,
handing her the booklet and questionnaire.
  
 
  "I don't really know what to say," she answered, squinting a little as
she usually did when puzzled. "I know one thing, though, and that's
that you won't stop until you find out!"
  
 
  "The scientific attitude," he acknowledged with a grin.
  
 
  "Why don't you fill out this questionnaire incognito, though?" she
suggested. "Pretend that we're wealthy and see if they try to get our
money. Do they have anything yet except your name and address?"
  
 
  Don was shocked. "If I send this back to them, it will have to be with
correct answers!"
  
 
  "The scientific attitude again," Betty sighed. "Don't you ever let your
imagination run away with the facts a bit? What are you going to give
for your reasons for asking about POSAT?"
  
 
  "Curiosity," he replied, and, pulling his fountain pen from his vest
pocket, he wrote exactly that, in small, neat script.
  
 
  It was unfortunate for his curiosity that Don could not see the
contents of the three envelopes that were mailed from the offices of
POSAT the following week. For this time they differed.
  
 
  Bill Evans was once again disappointed. The pamphlet that was enclosed
gave what apparently meant to be final answers to life's problems. They
were couched in vaguely metaphysical terms and offered absolutely no
help to him.
  
 
  His disappointment was tempered, however, by the knowledge that he
had unexpectedly found a job. Or, rather, it had fallen into his lap.
When he had thought that every avenue of employment had been tried, a
position had been offered him in a wholesale pharmacy in the older
industrial part of the city. It was not a particularly attractive place
to work, located as it was next to a large warehouse, but to him it was
hope for the future.
  
 
  It amused him to discover that the offices of POSAT were located on the
other side of the same warehouse, at the end of a blind alley. Blind
alley indeed! He felt vaguely ashamed for having placed any confidence
in them.
  
 
  Miss Arnable was thrilled to discover that her envelope contained not
only several pamphlets, (she scanned the titles rapidly and found that
one of them concerned the sacred cats of ancient Egypt), but that it
contained also a small pin with the symbol of POSAT wrought in gold and
black enamel. The covering letter said that she had been accepted as an
active member of POSAT and that the dues were five dollars per month;
please remit by return mail. She wrote a check immediately, and settled
contentedly into a chair to peruse the article on sacred cats.
  
 
  After a while she began to read aloud so that her own cats could enjoy
it, too.
  
 
  Don Alford would not have been surprised if his envelope had shown
contents similar to the ones that the others received. The folded
sheets of paper that he pulled forth, however, made him stiffen with
sharp surprise.
  
 
 
 
  "Come here a minute, Betty," he called, spreading them out carefully on
the dining room table. "What do you make of these?"
  
 
  She came, dish cloth in hand, and thoughtfully examined them, one by
one. "Multiple choice questions! It looks like a psychological test of
some sort."
  
 
  "This isn't the kind of thing I expected them to send me," worried
Don. "Look at the type of thing they ask. 'If you had discovered
a new and virulent poison that could be compounded from common
household ingredients, would you (1) publish the information in a
daily newspaper, (2) manufacture it secretly and sell it as rodent
exterminator, (3) give the information to the armed forces for use
as a secret weapon, or (4) withhold the information entirely as too
dangerous to be passed on?'"
  
 
  "Could they be a spy ring?" asked Betty. "Subversive agents? Anxious to
find out your scientific secrets like that classified stuff that you're
so careful of when you bring it home from the lab?"
  
 
  Don scanned the papers quickly. "There's nothing here that looks like
an attempt to get information. Besides, I've told them nothing about
my work except that I do research in physics. They don't even know
what company I work for. If this is a psychological test, it measures
attitudes, nothing else. Why should they want to know my attitudes?"
  
 
  "Do you suppose that POSAT is really what it claims to be—a secret
society—and that they actually screen their applicants?"
  
 
  He smiled wryly. "Wouldn't it be interesting if I didn't make the grade
after starting out to expose their racket?"
  
 
  He pulled out his pen and sat down to the task of resolving the
dilemmas before him.
  
 
  His next communication from POSAT came to his business address and,
paradoxically, was more personal than its forerunners.
  
 
  Dear Doctor Alford:
  
 
  We have examined with interest the information that you have sent to
us. We are happy to inform you that, thus far, you have satisfied the
requirements for membership in the Perpetual Order of Seekers After
Truth. Before accepting new members into this ancient and honorable
secret society, we find it desirable that they have a personal
interview with the Grand Chairman of POSAT.
  
 
  Accordingly, you are cordially invited to an audience with our Grand
Chairman on Tuesday, July 10, at 2:30 P.M. Please let us know if this
arrangement is acceptable to you. If not, we will attempt to make
another appointment for you.
  
 
  The time specified for the appointment was hardly a convenient one
for Don. At 2:30 P.M. on most Tuesdays, he would be at work in the
laboratory. And while his employers made no complaint if he took his
research problems home with him and worried over them half the night,
they were not equally enthusiastic when he used working hours for
pursuing unrelated interests. Moreover, the headquarters of POSAT was
in a town almost a hundred miles distant. Could he afford to take a
whole day off for chasing will-o-wisps?
  
 
  It hardly seemed worth the trouble. He wondered if Betty would be
disappointed if he dropped the whole matter. Since the letter had been
sent to the laboratory instead of his home, he couldn't consult her
about it without telephoning.
  
 
 
   Since the letter had been sent to the laboratory instead of his home!
   
  But it was impossible!
  
 
  He searched feverishly through his pile of daily mail for the
envelope in which the letter had come. The address stared up at him,
unmistakably and fearfully legible. The name of his company. The number
of the room he worked in. In short, the address that he had never given
them!
  
 
  "Get hold of yourself," he commanded his frightened mind. "There's some
perfectly logical, easy explanation for this. They looked it up in the
directory of the Institute of Physics. Or in the alumni directory of
the university. Or—or—"
  
 
  But the more he thought about it, the more sinister it seemed. His
laboratory address was available, but why should POSAT take the trouble
of looking it up? Some prudent impulse had led him to withhold that
particular bit of information, yet now, for some reason of their own,
POSAT had unearthed the information.
  
 
  His wife's words echoed in his mind, "Could they be a spy ring?
Subversive agents?"
  
 
  Don shook his head as though to clear away the confusion. His
conservative habit of thought made him reject that explanation as too
melodramatic.
  
 
  At least one decision was easier to reach because of his doubts. Now he
knew he had to keep his appointment with the Grand Chairman of POSAT.
  
 
  He scribbled a memo to the department office stating that he would not
be at work on Tuesday.
  
