Joined to this island by a rocky spine, which at the present low tide
would have been dry but for the spray, was another green, high island
that the first had masked from him all the while he had been sailing.
He felt a thrill of discovery, just as he'd wondered back in the woods
whether his might not be the first human feet to kick through the
underbrush. After all, there were thousands of these islands.
  
 
  Then he was dropping down the rocks, his lanky limbs now moving
smoothly enough.
  
 
  To the landward side of the spine, the water was fairly still. It even
began with another deep cove, in which he glimpsed the spiny spheres
of sea urchins. But from seaward the waves chopped in, sprinkling his
trousers to the knees and making him wince pleasurably at the thought
of what vast wings of spray and towers of solid water must crash up
from here in a storm.
  
 
  He crossed the rocks at a trot, ran up a short grassy slope, raced
through a fringe of trees—and came straight up against an eight-foot
fence of heavy mesh topped with barbed wire and backed at a short
distance with high, heavy shrubbery.
  
 
  Without pausing for surprise—in fact, in his holiday mood, using
surprise as a goad—he jumped for the branch of an oak whose trunk
touched the fence, scorning the easier lower branch on the other side
of the tree. Then he drew himself up, worked his way to some higher
branches that crossed the fence, and dropped down inside.
  
 
  Suddenly cautious, he gently parted the shrubbery and, before the first
surprise could really sink in, had another.
  
 
 
 
  A closely mown lawn dotted with more shrubbery ran up to a snug white
Cape Cod cottage. The single strand of a radio aerial stretched the
length of the roof. Parked on a neat gravel driveway that crossed just
in front of the cottage was a short, square-lined touring car that he
recognized from remembered pictures as an ancient Essex. The whole
scene had about it the same odd quietness as the cove.
  
 
  Then, with the air of a clock-work toy coming to life, the white door
opened and an elderly woman came out, dressed in a long, lace-edged
dress and wide, lacy hat. She climbed into the driver's seat of the
Essex, sitting there very stiff and tall. The motor began to chug
bravely, gravel skittered, and the car rolled off between the trees.
  
 
  The door of the house opened again and a slim girl emerged. She wore a
white silk dress that fell straight from square neck-line to hip-height
waistline, making the skirt seem very short. Her dark hair was bound
with a white bandeau so that it curved close to her cheeks. A dark
necklace dangled against the white of the dress. A newspaper was tucked
under her arm.
  
 
  She crossed the driveway and tossed the paper down on a rattan table
between three rattan chairs and stood watching a squirrel zigzag across
the lawn.
  
