The man stepped through the wall of shrubbery, called, "hello!" and
walked toward her.
  
 
  She whirled around and stared at him as still as if her heart had
stopped beating. Then she darted behind the table and waited for him
there. Granting the surprise of his appearance, her alarm seemed not
so much excessive as eerie. As if, the man thought, he were not an
ordinary stranger, but a visitor from another planet.
  
 
  Approaching closer, he saw that she was trembling and that her breath
was coming in rapid, irregular gasps. Yet the slim, sweet, patrician
face that stared into his had an underlying expression of expectancy
that reminded him of the cove. She couldn't have been more than
eighteen.
  
 
  He stopped short of the table. Before he could speak, she stammered
out, "Are you he?"
  
 
  "What do you mean?" he asked, smiling puzzledly.
  
 
  "The one who sends me the little boxes."
  
 
  "I was out sailing and I happened to land in the far cove. I didn't
dream that anyone lived on this island, or even came here."
  
 
  "No one ever does come here," she replied. Her manner had changed,
becoming at once more wary and less agitated, though still eerily
curious.
  
 
  "It startled me tremendously to find this place," he blundered on.
"Especially the road and the car. Why, this island can't be more than a
quarter of a mile wide."
  
 
  "The road goes down to the wharf," she explained, "and up to the top of
the island, where my aunts have a tree-house."
  
 
  He tore his mind away from the picture of a woman dressed like Queen
Mary clambering up a tree. "Was that your aunt I saw driving off?"
  
 
  "One of them. The other's taken the motorboat in for supplies." She
looked at him doubtfully. "I'm not sure they'll like it if they find
someone here."
  
 
  "There are just the three of you?" he cut in quickly, looking down the
empty road that vanished among the oaks.
  
 
  She nodded.
  
 
  "I suppose you go in to the mainland with your aunts quite often?"
  
 
  She shook her head.
  
 
  "It must get pretty dull for you."
  
 
  "Not very," she said, smiling. "My aunts bring me the papers and other
things. Even movies. We've got a projector. My favorite stars are
Antonio Morino and Alice Terry. I like her better even than Clara Bow."
  
 
  He looked at her hard for a moment. "I suppose you read a lot?"
  
 
  She nodded. "Fitzgerald's my favorite author." She started around the
table, hesitated, suddenly grew shy. "Would you like some lemonade?"
  
