 
  Yesterday House
  
 
  By FRITZ LEIBER
  
 
  Illustrated by ASHMAN
  
 
  [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
   
  Galaxy Science Fiction August 1952.
   
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
   
  the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
  
 
 
 
   Meeting someone who's been dead for twenty
    
   years is shocking enough for anyone with a
    
   belief in ghosts—worse for one with none!
   
 
 
 
  I
  
 
  The narrow cove was quiet as the face of an expectant child, yet so
near the ruffled Atlantic that the last push of wind carried the
   
   Annie
O.
   
  its full length. The man in gray flannels and sweatshirt let the
sail come crumpling down and hurried past its white folds at a gait
made comically awkward by his cramped muscles. Slowly the rocky ledge
came nearer. Slowly the blue V inscribed on the cove's surface by the
sloop's prow died. Sloop and ledge kissed so gently that he hardly had
to reach out his hand.
  
 
  He scrambled ashore, dipping a sneaker in the icy water, and threw the
line around a boulder. Unkinking himself, he looked back through the
cove's high and rocky mouth at the gray-green scattering of islands
and the faint dark line that was the coast of Maine. He almost laughed
in satisfaction at having disregarded vague warnings and done the thing
every man yearns to do once in his lifetime—gone to the farthest
island out.
  
 
  He must have looked longer than he realized, because by the time he
dropped his gaze the cove was again as glassy as if the
   
   Annie O.
   
  had
always been there. And the splotches made by his sneaker on the rock
had faded in the hot sun. There was something very unusual about the
quietness of this place. As if time, elsewhere hurrying frantically,
paused here to rest. As if all changes were erased on this one bit of
Earth.
  
 
  The man's lean, melancholy face crinkled into a grin at the banal
fancy. He turned his back on his new friend, the little green sloop,
without one thought for his nets and specimen bottles, and set out to
explore. The ground rose steeply at first and the oaks were close, but
after a little way things went downhill and the leaves thinned and he
came out on more rocks—and realized that he hadn't quite gone to the
farthest one out.
  
