With a start, Jack remembered that it was Mrs. Kesserich telling him
all this.
  
 
  She went on, "Martin's love directed his every move. He was building a
home for himself and Mary, and in his mind he was building a wonderful
future for them as well—not vaguely, if you know Martin, but year by
year, month by month. This winter, he'd plan, they would visit Buenos
Aires, next summer they would sail down the inland passage and he would
teach Mary Hungarian for their trip to Buda-Pesth the year after, where
he would occupy a chair at the university for a few months ... and so
on. Finally the time for their marriage drew near. Martin had been
away. His research was keeping him very busy—"
  
 
  Jack broke in with, "Wasn't that about the time he did his definitive
work on growth and fertilization?"
  
 
  Mrs. Kesserich nodded with solemn appreciation in the gathering
darkness. "But now he was coming home, his work done. It was early
evening, very chilly, but Hani and Hilda felt they had to ride down to
the station to meet their brother. And although she dreaded it, Mary
rode with them, for she knew how delighted he would be at her cantering
to the puffing train and his running up to lift her down from the
saddle to welcome him home.
  
 
  "Of course there was Martin's luggage to be considered, so the station
wagon had to be sent down for that." She looked defiantly at Jack. "I
drove the station wagon. I was Martin's laboratory assistant."
  
 
  She paused. "It was almost dark, but there was still a white cold
line of sky to the west. Hani and Hilda, with Mary between them, were
waiting on their horses at the top of the hill that led down to the
station. The train had whistled and its headlight was graying the
gravel of the crossing.
  
 
  "Suddenly Mary's horse squealed and plunged down the hill. Hani and
Hilda followed—to try to catch her, they said, but they didn't manage
that, only kept her horse from veering off. Mary never screamed, but as
her horse reared on the tracks, I saw her face in the headlight's glare.
  
 
  "Martin must have guessed, or at least feared what had happened, for he
was out of the train and running along the track before it stopped. In
fact, he was the first to kneel down beside Mary—I mean, what had been
Mary—and was holding her all bloody and shattered in his arms."
  
 
  A door slammed. There were steps in the hall. Mrs. Kesserich stiffened
and was silent. Jack turned.
  
 
  The blur of a face hung in the doorway to the hall—a seemingly young,
sensitive, suavely handsome face with aristocratic jaw. Then there was
a click and the lights flared up and Jack saw the close-cropped gray
hair and the lines around the eyes and nostrils, while the sensitive
mouth grew sardonic. Yet the handsomeness stayed, and somehow the
youth, too, or at least a tremendous inner vibrancy.
  
 
  "Hello, Barr," Martin Kesserich said, ignoring his wife.
  
 
  The great biologist had come home.
  
